Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator Supervisor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
HN-13000983-26-AG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your Ability to Lead or Supervise the work of Utility Systems Repairer-Operator Supervisor without more than normal supervision.

This includes knowledge and skill in: establishing the Scope of Work, forecasts funding, estimates the project timeline and procurement strategies; Monitoring and tracking major/minor maintenance and repair projects from inception to completion; Inspecting repairs and signs off on work orders accounting for time and materials to capture maintenance costs to be utilized in budget preparations and equipment replacement decisions; Develop employee performance standards and make formal appraisals of subordinate' s work performance, develop training requirements for subordinates, arrange for training, track and document training accomplishments and initiates recommendations for promotion or reassignment; responsible for initiating, monitoring and closeout of contracts for bulk oxygen, underground storage tank maintenance, water quality testing and reporting, boiler inspections and water chemistry testing; Responsible for the Underground Fuel storage tank program including annual maintenance contracts, monitoring, inventories, supply requisitioning and state licensing requirements; Maintains documentation provided by third party certifiers to ensure compliance with all VA Directives; Tracks contractor's work progress and performance through progress reports.

This is a screen-out element. Failure to meet a minimum level will result in an ineligible rating. Select only ONE letter.

 I have vocational training or I have completed an apprenticeship.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator under close supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator under normal supervision.
 I have experience performing the duties of a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator independently under limited supervision.
 I have experience as a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator Leader or Supervisor, or I am consulted by lead Utility Systems Repairer-Operator or other trade workers in difficult situations because of my expertise in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙