Position Title
Senior Merchant Mariner Course Evaluator (Deck)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13028041-SE-BK-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Nov 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Juneau, AK
 B. Long Beach, CA
 C. Oakland, CA
 D. Jacksonville, FL
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Honolulu, HI
 G. New Orleans, LA
 H. Baltimore, MD
 I. Boston, MA
 J. New York, NY
 K. Toledo, OH
 L. Memphis, TN
 M. Houston, TX
 N. Seattle, WA
 O. Martinsburg, WV


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-2101-13 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



1.
All applicants must meet one of the following Individual Occupational Requirements(IOR) listed below in addition to the grade specific requirements. Applicants may qualify based on their education and/or experience as described below:

Education

Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- accounting, business administration, business or commercial law, commerce, economics, engineering, finance, industrial management, statistics, traffic management, transportation, motor mechanics, or other fields related to the position (Transcripts required).

OR 

Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a knowledge of the transportation function(s) of the position to be filled.

Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the basic (IOR) Individual Occupational Requirements for this position
 

 I have an undergraduate and graduate degree in accounting, business administration, business or commercial law, commerce, economics, engineering, finance, industrial management, statistics, traffic management, transportation, motor mechanics, or other fields related to the position.
 I have specialized experience that has demonstrated a knowledge of the transportation function(s) of the position to be filled.
 I do not have the education and or specialized experience required.


2.
In addition to meeting the occupational requirements for this series, to qualify at the GS-2101-13 grade level, applicants must have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the federal sector. Specialized experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular ability, skill, and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of this position and is typically in or related to this line of work.
 
Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the federal sector that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include: interpreting and applying international and U.S. laws, regulations, and policies; drafting professional correspondence and preparing technical materials tailored to the maritime industry; and possessing afloat experience providing knowledge of the specific roles and responsibilities of vessel personnel, shipboard operations, and marine navigation.
 No, I do not meet the above specialized experience requirement


3.
Selective placement factors must be met by the close of this announcement. Applicant must hold or have held a U.S. Merchant Mariner credential in the grade of Chief Mate any gross tons or higher or military equivalent of DWO on vessels of 1600 GRT or higher or have been employed for two or more years as a subject matter deck expert in the Mariner Training and Assessment Division at the National Maritime Center.

Chose the answer as to how you meet the selective placement factor
 I hold or have held a U.S. Merchant Mariner credential in the grade of Chief Mate any gross tons or higher or military equivalent of DWO on vessels of 1600 GRT or higher or have been employed for two or more years as a subject matter deck expert in the Mariner Training and Assessment Division at the National Maritime Center.
 I do not meet the selective placement factor


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.



4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙