Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist ER/LR
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBJE-12922975-26-CMT Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Madison, AL
 AB. Lodi, CA
 AT. Quartz Hill, CA
 AU. Denver, CO
 AV. Cheshire, CT
 AW. Meriden, CT
 AX. Washington, DC
 AY. Howey in the Hills, FL
 AZ. Miramar, FL
 BA. Valrico, FL
 BB. Decatur, GA
 BC. Hampton, GA
 BD. Newnan, GA
 BE. Smyrna, GA
 BF. Lewiston, ID
 BG. Crestwood, IL
 BH. Fort Wayne, IN
 BI. Indianapolis, IN
 BJ. Marion, IN
 BK. Manhattan, KS
 BL. Burlington, KY
 BM. Inez, KY
 BN. Leesville, LA
 BO. Ellicott City, MD
 BP. Somerville, MA
 BQ. Ann Arbor, MI
 B. Battle Creek, MI
 C. Bay City, MI
 D. Birch Run, MI
 E. Detroit, MI
 F. Garden City, MI
 G. Mount Morris, MI
 H. Saginaw, MI
 I. Saginaw County, MI
 J. Washtenaw County, MI
 K. Biloxi, MS
 L. Bedford, NH
 M. McKinley County, NM
 N. Durham, NC
 O. High Point, NC
 P. Lexington, NC
 Q. Ashtabula, OH
 R. Avon Lake, OH
 S. Bedford, OH
 T. Chillicothe, OH
 U. Cincinnati, OH
 V. Cleveland, OH
 W. Columbus, OH
 X. Dayton, OH
 Y. Elyria, OH
 Z. Euclid, OH
 AA. Lyndhurst, OH
 AC. Macedonia, OH
 AD. Mason, OH
 AE. Medina, OH
 AF. Mogadore, OH
 AG. Mogadore, OH
 AH. North Ridgeville, OH
 AI. North Royalton, OH
 AJ. Powell, OH
 AK. South Euclid, OH
 AL. Twinsburg, OH
 AM. Willoughby, OH
 AN. Pittsburgh, PA
 AO. Columbia, SC
 AP. Clarksville, TN
 AQ. Mabank, TX
 AR. San Antonio, TX
 AS. Quechee, VT


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Supervisory Human Resources Specialist ER/LR position. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Grade Level Qualification Requirements: 

To qualify for this position at the GS-13 level, you must also meet one of the following listed Criteria:

Criteria 1: Graduate Degree and Specialized Experience
Graduate level degree or higher and three years of progressive specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. Specialized experience includes but not limited to: Knowledge of laws, rules, regulations, case law, principles and practices related to employee conduct, performance and dispute resolution and other areas such as reasonable accommodation. Knowledge of laws, rules, regulations, case law, principles and practices related to negotiating and administering labor agreements and providing guidance and consultation on a variety of labor relations matters.
OR,
Criteria 2: Specialized Experience
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-12. Specialized experience includes but not limited to: Knowledge of laws, rules, regulations, case law, principles and practices related to employee conduct, performance and dispute resolution and other areas such as reasonable accommodation. Knowledge of laws, rules, regulations, case law, principles and practices related to negotiating and administering labor agreements and providing guidance and consultation on a variety of labor relations matters.
 I meet the qualifications for Criteria 1.
 I meet the qualifications for Criteria 2.
 I do not meet the qualifications for criteria 1 or 2


Resume Reminder- Your Resume cannot exceed 2 pages. It must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title: Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2023)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume.
Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Note:  We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (if applicable for Time in Grade and/or Eligibility):
Must provide your most recent SF-50 (i.e.- SF-50 would be from the January 2026 pay adjustment)
You must also provide SF-50's showing your one- year time-in-grade eligibility -must be submitted with your application materials.
If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide multiple SF-50s that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.   An Award SF50 does not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙