Position Title
Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
372-13024071-26-GW-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Vocational Rehab Counselor position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume, application, and responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capabilities. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligibles within the National Capital Regional Benefits Office.


1.
Are you a current/former permanent employee of VBA, National Capital Regional Benefits Office?
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: This position requires a master's degree in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling or social work from an accredited college or university. Your degree program must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. For programs without the required internship, you may substitute one year post master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities. Your application MUST include a copy of your transcripts (not diploma) stating the degree has been conferred or that you have graduated.


2.
Please select the one response that most accurately describes your education:
 I have a master’s degree in one of the fields mentioned above that included a supervised internship.
 I have a master’s degree in one of the fields mentioned above that did not include an internship, but I have one year of post-Master's degree work experience delivering vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities.
 I was permanently employed on and/or before July 28, 2023 and have since remained employed with the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I do not meet the requirements as stated in "A", "B", or "C" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


INTERNSHIP OR EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: The education in item 1 of the Basic Education Requirements listed above must have included a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization or one-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities. The internship must have been supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.



3.
Please select the one response that describes your ability to meet the Internship or Experience Requirement for the VRC position.
 I have successfully completed a supervised internship in rehabilitation counseling or case management specialization. My internship was supervised by a professional in vocational rehabilitation or a closely related professional field that typically has oversight for vocational rehabilitation programs.
 I have successfully completed at least one-year post-master's degree experience in direct delivery of professional vocational rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities.
 I am eligible under the grandfathering provision of this qualification as I was permanently employed prior to July 28, 2023, and currently remain a permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration as a VRC.
 I do not meet the requirements as stated in "A", "B", or "C" above, therefore, I do not meet this eligibility requirement for this position.


TIME-IN-GRADE: Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.
Note: For current or former Federal employees holding a GS position at any time in the past 52 weeks, you must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this job announcement.



4.
GS-09 Grade Level - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-07 level or higher.


5.
GS-11 Grade Level - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher.


6.
GS-12 Grade Level - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade or higher.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


7.
GS-09 Grade Level: To qualify for the GS-09 grade level, you must meet the basic requirements described in question #1.
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirement.


8.
GS-11 Grade Level
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level. Specialized experience reflects management of vocational rehabilitation counseling or case management workload involving persons with a wide variety of disability conditions (e.g., mental health, physical, cognitive, visual/auditory, substance abuse).
OR
Successful completion of 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a Ph.D. (or equivalent doctoral degree) in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling, or social work from an accredited college or university. From the descriptions below, please select a response that best describes the level of education and experience you fully possess that demonstrates your ability and qualifications to perform the work of Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor at the grade level of GS-11. NOTE: If one year of work experience is credited for determining minimum qualifications, that year cannot also be used for determining grade level. For example, for candidates with two years of qualifying work experience, but no internship/practicum, the first year of experience is used to meet the basic requirement and the second year of experience is used to qualify for the GS-11.
 I have specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher in the Federal service.
 I have successful completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a PH.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in rehabilitation counseling, rehabilitation services, clinical rehabilitation counseling, counseling psychology, mental health counseling, career counseling, or social work from an accredited college or university. (Must submit transcripts)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of higher level graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


9.
GS-12 Grade Level
In addition to meeting the basic requirements stated above, to qualify at the GS-12, you must have one year of specialized vocational rehabilitation experience in a federal, state, and/or private vocational rehabilitation setting equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level. Professional experience reflects the management of vocational rehabilitation counseling or case management workload involving persons with a wide variety of disability conditions (e.g., mental health, physical, cognitive, visual/auditory, substance abuse).
 I have specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level.
 My experience is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙