Position Title
Secretary (Office Automation)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCR-26-12954676-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 X. Phoenix, AZ
 Y. Laguna Niguel, CA
 Z. Los Angeles, CA
 AA. Sacramento, CA
 AB. San Diego, CA
 AC. San Francisco, CA
 AD. San Jose, CA
 AE. Thousand Oaks, CA
 AF. Denver, CO
 AG. East Hartford, CT
 AH. Washington, DC
 AI. Jacksonville, FL
 AJ. Miami, FL
 AK. Plantation, FL
 AL. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Honolulu, HI
 AO. Chicago, IL
 AP. Indianapolis, IN
 AQ. Louisville, KY
 AR. New Orleans, LA
 AS. Baltimore, MD
 AT. Boston, MA
 AU. Detroit, MI
 AV. Saint Paul, MN
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Newark, NJ
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. New York, NY
 H. Westbury, NY
 I. Greensboro, NC
 J. Cincinnati, OH
 K. Cleveland, OH
 L. Oklahoma City, OK
 M. Portland, OR
 N. Philadelphia, PA
 O. Pittsburgh, PA
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Austin, TX
 R. Farmers Branch, TX
 S. Houston, TX
 T. Salt Lake City, UT
 U. Richmond, VA
 V. Seattle, WA
 W. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
9
10


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.


3.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-08 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-08 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.


4.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Secretary (OA) position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Secretary (OA) at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Secretary (OA) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Secretary (OA) at the GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
I have experience as a secretary or administrative assistant directly reporting to: (Choose the answer that best describes the highest level of supervisory level you have directly supported as a secretary.)
 Executive (e.g. Agency Head, Business Unit Head, CEO, Senior Vice President).
 Mid-level to Senior Manager (e.g. Department Manager, Function Manager, District Manager).
 First Level Manager (e.g. Front Line Supervisor).
 I do not have experience working as a secretary or administrative assistant.


5.
Ability to manage administrative and support functions for an office with a multi-functional subordinate structure. Choose the description that best describes your highest level of experience.

 I have experience as the secretary or office manager for a large office or organization with responsibility for managing all day to day office needs. Independently responsible for managing the office, to include obtaining supplies and services, arranging travel, maintain time and attendance, establishing and maintaining filing and other office systems, and developing and issuing office and correspondence procedures. Provides guidance to support staff.
 I have experience as a secretary of office manager for a small organization without subordinate levels. Independently responsible for managing administrative and clerical processes for the staff, to include arranging travel, maintaining time and attendance, establishing and maintaining files and other systems of records.
 I have experience in office clerical work that does not meet the full scope described above.
 I do not have experience performing clerical work.


6.
Which of the following best describes the highest degree of flexibility you have demonstrated on the job?
 I have rearranged virtually all work priorities and schedules to accommodate a sudden major change, problem, or setback.
 I have completed assignments on short notice.
 I have rearranged a moderate amount of work priorities to accommodate occasional and temporary changes in the office or in project resources or goals.
 I have adjusted work procedures and schedules to accommodate unexpected changes to comply with recently introduced policies and procedures.
 I have helped another office when they were short-staffed or when working on a special project.
 I do not have the described experience.


7.
From the list below, select those tasks you have performed independently to produce products using computer systems and software. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have prepared correspondence using word processing software.
 B. I have prepared formal briefings or presentation slides using presentation software.
 C. I have prepared final reports containing tables, charts, and graphics.
 D. I have created spreadsheets.
 E. I have created templates or macro?s using word processing software.
 F. I have maintained and managed content on a collaboration platform.
 G. I have managed Outlook calendars for others and setup multiple recurrent meetings.
 H. I have created Web documents in PDF.
 I. I have prepared legal briefs using footnotes.
 J. I do not have experience performing any of the listed tasks.


8.
Which software applications do you have experience with? (Select all that apply)

 A. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 B. Microsoft Word or other word processing software.
 C. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 D. Adobe Acrobat.
 E. Microsoft Outlook or other email application.
 F. SharePoint.
 G. CASE-MIS.
 H. SETR.
 I. PPS (Procurement for Public Sector).
 J. CONCUR.
 K. I do not have experience with the listed software applications.


9.
Which statement best describes your writing experience?

 I research files for information to be used in replies, prepare memorandums, letters, and documents, adding required information and revising material.
 I prepare a variety of written documents and reports to explain technical and/or legal procedures/processes with appropriate citations.
 I draft routine memos, letters, emails, etc. and ensure they are in the proper format and have correct spelling, punctuation, and grammar.
 I do not have the described experience.


10.
Select the answer which best demonstrates your ability to analyze clerical support work flow issues and operating procedures in a legal office environment and recommend solutions.

 I have experience identifying problems with clerical support procedure in a legal environment or identifying problems both in clerical support and operating procedures in a non-legal environment and in making recommendations (orally) to management.
 I have experience identifying clerical support and operating procedures that might benefits from change and making recommendations (in writing) to management.
 I have experience identifying and analyzing clerical support and operating procedures that would benefit from changes (e.g., use of office automation), demonstrating creativity in solving problems, and presenting recommendations (in writing) to management that were implemented.
 I have experience identifying clerical support areas that might benefits from changes in procedures.
 I do not possess the above described experience.


11.
Which of the following best describes your customer service experience?

 I do not have customer service experience.
 I have assisted customers with routine problems.
 I have had extensive experience with answering a high volume of customer requests in difficult situations.
 I have been proactively involved in customer issues and concerns, and have followed up until issues were resolved.
 I have experience responding to customer complaints.


12.
Which of the following best describes your ability to effectively and professionally interact with internal and external customers?

 I have experience interacting with employees, managers, and high level officials from within my division, as well as from outside divisions and the public.
 I have experience interacting with employees and managers within my organization.
 I have experience interacting with employees, managers, and high level officials from within my agency, as well as from outside agencies and the public.
 I have experience interacting with employees and managers within my division.
 I have experience interacting with employees, managers, and high level officials within my agency, from outside agencies, private entities, and the public.
 I do not have the experience described.


13.
Which of the following best describes your experience regarding office filing systems (not including personal files)?

 I have experience maintaining a filing system for the office, including updating and revising files, and purging files as necessary.
 I have experience establishing and maintaining a filing system for the office. This includes updating and revising files, as well as purging files as necessary.
 I have experience organizing and maintaining a filing system using established office filing procedures. I retrieve information from the files when necessary.
 I have experience retrieving information from established office files.
 I do not have experience handling and maintaining office files.


14.
Select the answers which describe your experience with incoming/outgoing legal and administrative correspondence, documents, files, etc. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have experience receiving, screening, and routing incoming and outgoing legal mail, email, and correspondence to the appropriate staff member, as well as experience personally replying to mail not requiring the supervisor?s attention.
 B. I have experience locating necessary background material for files to attach to incoming correspondence, reports, and documents, as well as in assembling files for submission to legal courts.
 C. I have been recognized through performance appraisal(s) and/or award(s) for my work in identifying urgent matters and bringing them to the immediate attention of the manager.
 D. I have experience tracking incoming correspondence and following up to ensure actions related to incoming mail have been completed timely and signing correspondence and procedural authorizations in the name of the manager.
 E. I have not worked with incoming or outgoing correspondence.


15.
Which of the following have you performed in arranging meetings or conference for your supervisor? (Please select all that apply.)

 A. I have made arrangements for conference which included setting dates and facilities.
 B. I have provided necessary supplies and equipment for meetings and conferences.
 C. I have notified participants of conference dates and any changes related to meetings.
 D. I have drafted the meeting or conference agendas and presentation outlines, and assembled supporting materials for attendees.
 E. I have prepared formal presentation slides and handouts for the supervisor.
 F. I have been recognized through performance appraisal(s) and/or award(s) for my work in arranging social functions held for conference participants.
 G. I have attended meetings or conference to record minutes and have summarized and distributed these minutes.
 H. I have followed up to ensure that commitments made in meetings are carried out within agreed upon timeframes.
 I. I do not possess the described experience.


16.
Which of the following were you responsible for as a regular part of your job? (Please select all that apply.)

 A. I have reviewed authorizations and vouchers for the supervisor?s approval.
 B. I have created and maintained documentation authorizing travel for supervisor and office staff.
 C. I have assisted conference attendees with hotel accommodations, verifying rooms, and confirmations.
 D. I have made hotel, air, and rental car reservations for supervisor and other staff as requested.
 E. I have explained travel procedures and processes to customers and co-workers.
 F. I have not been responsible for the listed tasks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
This position requires a qualified typist. A qualified typist can type 40 words per minute based on a 5 minute sample with three or fewer errors. Are you a qualified typist?

 Yes
 No


18.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙