Position Title
Heath Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12854038-26-SBT Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 17, 2025 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f) ?

 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Experience and Education. NOTE: There is no combination of education and experience which can be substituted for the basic requirements.
(1) Experience. Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists (Evidence of completion must be uploaded to your application.)
OR
(2) Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas. (Transcripts must be uploaded as part of your application.)

Do you meet one of these basic requirements and provided evidence as part of your application?

 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure or Registration: Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a Hearing Instrument technician in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia. Please provide a copy of your current license with your application.

 Yes
 No


4.
Board Certification: Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS) (Please upload a copy with your application unless requesting the GS-05 exemption). Do you possess this board certification?

 Yes, I hold an active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).
 No, I do not have the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS) and request to be considered under the exception for a temporary appointment at entry level of GS-05 and understand that I may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.
 No, I do not have a certification.


Assignment at the GS-5 Grade Level: Employees at this grade level serve in a Health Technician (HIS) entry level developmental position and work under the supervision and direction of a licensed audiologist. Assignments associated with this level include, but are not limited to: performing non-diagnostic otoscopy including proper bracing techniques and making appropriate referrals for abnormalities and cerumen management; rechecking air-conduction pure tone threshold testing to assist the audiologist in modifying the treatment plan during hearing aid repair appointments; providing patient care in hearing aid repair appointments, consistent with the audiologist's treatment plan; completing visual and auditory checks with listening stethoscope of hearing aids prior to and following repair of device (troubleshoots performance); processing incoming devices from patients with concerns related to their hearing aids or hearing assistive technology; preparing and charging (if required) hearing aids and assistive devices for delivery; receiving devices and restoring settings of hearing aid/hearing assistive technology after repair or replacement from manufacturer, such as Denver Logistics Center (DLC); and maintaining proper levels of mailing/shipping supplies. The Health Technician (HIS) adheres to the audiology clinic policy and standard operating procedures for infection control and cleaning, sterilization and disposition of reusable medical equipment(RME). The Health Technician (HIS) completes documentation per medical center policy for timeliness for each episode of care and codes procedures as appropriate in the patient record in preparation for co-signature by the audiologist. The Health Technician (HIS) provides instruction to patients, family and staff on device topics including but not limited to hearing aid and hearing assistive technology care, maintenance, use and operation. The Health Technician (HIS) receives and completes incoming communications from Veterans (electronic and telephone), and facilitates follow-up based on audiologist's treatment plan to include ordering supplies through DLC.


5.
GS-5 Grade Requirements - Experience: None beyond basic qualifications above.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

(a)Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
(b)Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
(c)Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
(d)Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
(e)Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
(f)Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.

Do you possess the experience and KSAs described in the paragraph above?

 Yes
 No


Assignment at the GS-6 Grade Level: Employees at this level are at the full performance level and work under the supervision and direction of a licensed audiologist. Assignments associated with this level include, but are not limited to: completing visual and auditory checks of hearing aids and hearing assistive technology-including all hearing aid accessories, as well as, alerting devices (troubleshoots performance); registering, certifying and tracking prosthetic devices (hearing aids, hearing aid accessories and assistive devices); and assisting in set up and delivery of face-to-face and telehealth visits by preparing the equipment for patient evaluation and other audiology procedures, including, but not limited to daily biologic listening calibration of audiometric equipment and calibration of real-ear equipment. The Health Technician (HIS) fabricates earmold impressions with proper otoscopy, orders earmolds based on plan of care through prosthetics or DLC and fits and modifies earmolds, if necessary. The Health Technician (HIS) provides patient care in hearing aid repair appointments consistent with the audiologist's treatment plan and provides counselling including, but not limited to realistic expectations, communication strategies and/or aural rehabilitation. The Health Technician (HIS) maintains a comprehensive supply and equipment tracking systems to include: monitoring stock of RME and consumable items; ensuring proper inventory levels to complete the daily tasks; prioritizing the acquisition of all supplies and equipment with regard to date of expiration; and may maintain a loaner hearing aid inventory. The Health Technician (HIS) assists patients with hearing aid connectivity including, but not limited to downloading applications (or apps), pairing devices in the app, Bluetooth ? pairing and pairing hearing aid accessories. The Health Technician (HIS) assists patients through triaging phone calls and audiology requests with regards to priority and urgency following the audiologist's plan of care.


6.
GS-6 Grade Requirements - One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

(a) Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
(b) Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
(c) Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
(d) Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
(e) Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
(f) Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
(g) Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
(h) Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Do you possess the experience and KSAs described in the paragraph above?

 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED)
Employer's Name Employer's City, State
Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s))
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008 or 06/07-04/08)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week, i.e. 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc.
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. NOTE: We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙