Position Title
Interdisciplinary New Parent Support Home Visitor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12971536 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0185 - Social Work
 C. 0610 - Nurse


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for the New Parent Support Program (NPSP) to provide social work, licensed professional counseling, licensed marriage and family therapy services; or nursing services, do you have either (1) a current, valid unrestricted clinical license to practice social work, marriage and family therapy, or counseling independently; or (2) a current unrestricted license as a professional nurse from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.

 Yes, I am a social worker, LPC, or LMFT and have the required licensure.
 Yes, I am a registered nurse and have the required licensure.
 NO


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for the New Parent Support Program (NPSP) to provide social work, licensed professional counseling, licensed marriage and family therapy services; or nursing services, which of the following specialized experience do you possess?
 As a social worker, LPC, or LMFT, I have at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 As a registered nurse, I have at least 2 years of direct experience in child abuse or domestic abuse, maternal or child health, community health, or mental health.
 I do not possess any of the above.


3.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for the New Parent Support Program (NPSP) to provide nursing services, do you possess a bachelor's degree in nursing from an accredited professional nursing education program?  This education must have been accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs, Accreditation Commission for Midwifery Education, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.  Note, official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools. Transcripts must be included with application in order to be considered for this position.
 As a registered nurse, I possess a bachelor’s degree in nursing from an accredited professional nursing education program.
 I qualify for this position as a social worker, LPC, or LMFT.
 NO


4.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0610 series, which of the following experience/education requirements do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 I have successful completion of a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field.
 I have at least three full years of professional nursing experience.
 I am qualifying based on my education and experience as a social worker, LPC, or LMFT.
 None of the above apply to me.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0101 or 0185 series, do you have at least 3 years' specialized experience in providing positive parenting practices based on knowledge of child development and theories of attachment?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙