Position Title
SUPERVISORY CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-26-12840356-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Tuesday, December 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


SHORT ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Supervisory Contract Specialist position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level NH-03(GS-13) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Examples of creditable specialized experience include: exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities and directing, coordinating, and overseeing work of major federal contract specializations; establishing policies and procedures for accomplishment of federal acquisitions to include acquisition planning, solicitation development, source selection, negotiation, contract award, cost and price analysis, administration, and contract support; providing expert business advisory support to senior leaders, and serving as a Contracting Officer defining, integrating, and implementing strategic direction for programs with long term impact, and making sound decisions applying precedents found in government contracting case law; and mastery knowledge of a full range of federal contracting laws, regulations, principles, policies, procedures, methods, techniques, and contract types applicable to pre- and post-award actions for a variety of complex and/or diversified services commodities, and/or construction.
 I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.


2.
In addition to meeting the specialized experience, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess for the position Contract Specialist, NH-1102-04. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 I have a Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees. I have included my transcript with my application.
 I DO NOT have a degree, but I am a current DoD civilian employee, in any occupational series, who occupied a similar occupational specialty to the 1102 series while serving in the military on or before September 30, 2000, and have listed this experience in my resume.
 I DO NOT have a degree, but I am a current DoD civilian employee, who occupied 1102 series positions or contracting positions with authority to award or administer contracts above the simplified acquisition threshold in an Executive Department on or before September 30, 2000, and have listed this experience in my resume.
 I do not possess the required education or experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙