Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13074010-AR
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 20, 2026
5801-10-D1194000-TXARNG
.
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.
1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.
2.
Are you E-1not to exceed E-9 -OR a WO1 not to exceed CW2? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Army National Guard in the ranks listed above.
 Yes, I am E-1 NTE E-9
 Yes, I am an WO1 NTE CW2
 I do not possess one of the above listed ranks.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? AFSC/MOS: 12, 13, 14, 19, 25, 88, 91, 92, 94
 Yes
 No
4.
Please type your current rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".
5.
From the statement below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Specialized Experience Requirement for the Surface Maintenance Mechanic WG-5801-10 position. Experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems. Knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards. Ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems.
 I do have the qualification requirements listed above
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
6.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No
7.
Do you currently have a Secret Security clearance, or are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret Security clearance within the first year of employment?
 Yes
 No
8.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? If yes please upload a copy of your orders.
 Yes
 No
9.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
