Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NESDIS-26-13003124-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boulder, CO
 B. Fort Collins, CO
 C. College Park, MD
 D. Greenbelt, MD
 E. Lanham, MD
 F. Riverdale, MD
 G. Silver Spring, MD
 H. Suitland, MD
 I. Stennis Space Center, MS
 J. Asheville, NC
 K. Madison, WI


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Management and Program Analyst, ZA-0343-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Conducting qualitative and quantitative analyses to assess the effectiveness and efficiency for a program; Performing financial analysis or budget formulation for a program to ensure compliance and sufficient resources for a program; and Providing advice or guidance for interpretation or implementation policies, regulations, or operating procedures.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
In your experience conducting statistical and comparative analysis of program workload, resource allocation, and performance indicators, which of the following groups represents the highest organizational level or scope of external interaction you have regularly advised, presented findings to, or collaborated with?
 Peer-level analysts across different agencies.
 External stakeholders and vendors only.
 Top management officials.
 Mid-level program managers.


2.
When you analyze new, updated, guidance and regulations, what is the primary purpose of your analysis as it relates to organizational functions?

 To determine and advise leadership on their impact on mission operations and performance management.
 To simply catalog changes for legal compliance records.
 To draft internal communications explaining the policy timeline to staff.
 To compare the new policy against outdated regulations to ensure historical consistency.


3.
When assessing the long-term effectiveness of programs, which of the following is considered one of the single most crucial criteria for demonstrating progress toward sound management?
 The agency has leadership buy-in, a detailed corrective action plan that addresses the root causes of the risk, and verifiable metrics showing sustained progress over time.
 The program successfully secures incremental budget increases each fiscal year to outpace inflation, regardless of performance metrics.
 The program broadens its target audience and introduces new initiatives to demonstrate organizational growth and public reach.
 The agency minimizes its personnel footprint to lower administrative overhead, shifting all remaining workload to automated database systems.


4.
In your previous role, to what extent have you independently researched, drafted, and finalized authoritative written products?

 Departmental directive
 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
 Policy memoranda, or legislative proposals
 Internal administrative and financial operations?


5.
When tasked with managing communication for a potentially high-stress or sensitive organizational matter, which of the following best represents the most essential and proactive communication responsibility for a professional in this role?
 Applying rigorous analytical methods to normalize the data, identifying core trends or anomalies, and translating the findings into concise, actionable insights focused on operational efficiency and effectiveness.
 Provide leaders with comprehensive, raw data exports and system queries for their independent review.
 Communicating only through standardized written memos.
 Delegating all public speaking engagements to another office.


6.
When synthesizing complex, disparate datasets from multiple internal and external sources, which approach represents the most effective method for briefing Senior Leaders on program efficiency and organizational effectiveness?
 Provide raw datasets over information gathering.
 Provide a broad historical context without immediate relevance.
 Do not support executive decision-making.
 Provide Senior leaders require data that has already been analyzed, contextualized, and paired with actionable recommendations regarding efficiency and effectiveness.


7.
What is your understanding of operations and resource management, identify the specific category of performance metrics from the options below that an incumbent would prioritize for a statistical and comparative analysis for process re-engineering?
 External market capitalization rates and investor confidence metrics.
 Program/division workload, resources, and process indicators.
 Employee satisfaction scores for other agencies.
 The price of office supplies purchased each week.


8.
Which specific Internal Controls & Assessment duty is responsible for the continuous, risk-based evaluation of both the design and operating effectiveness of controls, including the execution of testing procedures, and the subsequent reporting of identified deficiencies and recommended corrective actions to management?
 Conducting a quarterly review.
 Ensuring all team members complete their annual ethics training.
 Assessing and ensuring compliance with Agency regulations, procedures, and sound management practices.
 Negotiating final contract terms with vendors for all procurements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙