Position Title
Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
346-26-KW-13054990-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Veterans Service Representative (GS-0996-07/09/10) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume, application and responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capabilities. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.


This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Seattle, Washington, VBA Regional Office employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Seattle, Washington, VBA Regional Office employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible. Eligible applicants must hold a career or career-conditional appointment or be eligible under VBA CTAP. Are you an employee of the Agency indicated for this position?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held the next lower grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent VBA appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.


2.
GS-07: At the GS-07 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-05 grade or higher. Please select the response that reflects your Time-in-Grade.
 Yes, I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher.
 No, I do not have the time-in-grade as described above.


3.
GS-09: At the GS-09 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most
accurately describes you:

 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 or higher grade.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position.


4.
GS-10: At the GS-10 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have at least on year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 or higher grade.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for the Veterans Service Representative (GS-0996-07/09/10) position, you must have at least one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience, qualifying education or a combination of the two. The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response.


5.
To qualify for the GS-0996-07 position you must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as the interpretation or application of laws, regulations, or procedures to analyze evidence to make determinations and research routine issues to resolve discrepancies. Examples of experience include but are not limited to:
Technical assignments related to claims or benefits processing or eligibility determinations. Quality assurance or auditor functions. Compiling income and legal documentation to determine basic eligibility for benefits or programs. Claims processing for: A state or federal agency, Insurance company, Worker's Compensation, Disability Retirement or Pension Program. Human Resource positions which involved determining employment qualifications, job classification, or determining eligibility for benefits. Positions involved in assisting veterans with claims application
OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education you must have:
One full year of graduate level education or a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher).
Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov.
OR
Combination of Experience and Education: A combination of successfully completed post high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements. To calculate, first identify your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required; then determine your education as a percentage of the education required; then add the two percentages. The total of percentages must equal 100% to qualify.
Based on the description above, does your experience/education qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative GS-0996-07 position? Please select the answer that best describes your qualifications.

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience in the federal service or other sector equivalent to at least the GS-05 level or higher.
 Yes, I have earned a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher) or I have completed one full year of graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work. Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. (For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov)
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B", which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
To qualify for the GS-0996-09 position you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07. Specialized experience is defined as experience which requires the interpretation of legal and medical documentation to determine the claimant's eligibility for services and benefits programs. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Determining the eligibility for Federal or State-administered benefits, such as disability, education, housing, medical, and/or veterans' benefits;
Interpreting and applying Federal and State laws, including case law, existing statutes and procedures, and precedent rulings, to process claims pertaining to a service program;
Gathering and requesting evidence to build service program case files, respond to claimant inquiries and identify errors, inconsistencies, or omissions;
Explaining Federal or State claims decisions to claimants, special interest groups, dependents and/or representatives in an effort to gain acceptance of the determination.
OR

Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education you must have:
A master's or equivalent graduate degree in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university; OR
Two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or equivalent graduate degree (such LL.B. or J.D.),
OR

Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate-level education (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.) To be creditable, such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (see "Competencies" in the Requirements section) necessary to do the work.

Note: Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-10.
Based on the description above, does your experience/education qualify you for the Veterans Service Representative GS-0996-09 position? Please select the answer that best describes your qualifications.

 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience in the federal service or other sector equivalent to at least the GS-07 level or higher.
 Yes, I have earned a master’s or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


7.
To qualify for the GS-0996-10 position you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09). Specialized experience is that which demonstrates competence in adjudicating Veterans' claims. Specialized experience is typically gained in positions that have involved the development, examination, investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for disability compensation, disability pension, death compensation, death pension benefits, life insurance benefits etc. Such experience is to be substantive and relevant and requires a high degree of independence and judgment in interpretation of more complex legal and medical documentation to determine claimant's eligibility and supporting evidence for services and benefits.
OR
Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education you must have:
Two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. To be creditable, such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (see "Competencies" in the Requirements section) necessary to do the work.
OR

Note: Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-10. (i.e. The applicant's first year of graduate study is not qualifying for GS-9.).
OR
Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate Education. (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify).
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-10, Veterans Service Representative work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower-level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of GS-09 in the federal service, state or other sector.
 I have at least two and a half years (45 semester hours or 68 quarter hours) of progressively higher level graduate education leading to Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (such as an LL.M.).
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in "A", "B", or "C above statements, therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this occupational questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙