Position Title
Program Manager - Controlled Substance Coordinator
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13025660-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Manger position located at the Lexington VA Health Care System. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
To qualify for the GS-9 Program Manager position, you must meet one of the following requirements:

GS-9 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Your experience must have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized Experience is defined as:
Basic knowledge of analytical and evaluative methods to assist with studies related to the efficiency and effectiveness of data management and performance improvement programs.
Familiarity with relevant regulations, policies, and procedures for assigned tasks.
Ability to apply established analytical techniques to carry out assigned projects under supervision.
General understanding of performance improvement processes and regulatory requirements such as TJC, VHA, and OIG.
Ability to utilize clinical and administrative VA computer systems to extract information for specific, well-defined assignments.
Ability to validate data for routine reports and support data tracking and analysis activities.
Developing skills to communicate findings through oral and written reports and briefings.
Ability to organize work, prioritize assignments, and assume routine administrative duties in support of program objectives, with increasing independence as experience is gained.
Or 

GS-09 Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree

Or 

GS-9 Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond graduate level education (in excess of the first two years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. (Transcripts must be submitted with application)

Do you have the experience/education as described in the above? Please select the appropriate response.

NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) as described above. I understand my resume must reflect my experience.
 I have successfully completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I do not possess the experience or education to meet the basic requirements for the position. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


2.
To qualify for the GS-11 Program Manager position, you must meet one of the following requirements:

GS-11 Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Your experience must have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized Experience is defined as:
Knowledge and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues and studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of the data management, and performance improvement programs.
Knowledge of the regulations, policies and procedures which affect the assigned programs.
Knowledge and skill in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to the measurement and improvement of program effectiveness for both data management and performance improvement.
Formal training in performance improvement tools, techniques, and initiatives.
Understanding of regulatory agency requirements such as TJC, VHA, and OIG.
Knowledge of a broad range of clinical and administrative computer systems used by the Department of Veterans Affairs to collect data and how to extract pertinent information for specific assignments (Pyramid, VSSC, VistA, etc.).
Skill in applying fact-finding, investigative techniques, and critical thinking skills to identify, analyze and recommend solutions to problems posed by the management of the medical center.
Knowledge and understanding of the mission, vision, values, goals, and organization of the VHA and the health care system.
Knowledge and understanding of how the above relates to the mission of our Quality Management & Systems Redesign Programs.
Performs routine validation of data for standard reports submitted from the medical center to network and central office program offices.
Extensive knowledge and understanding of management principles, practices, and methods of data tracking and analysis.
Ability to analyze complex data and problems and present both oral and written recommendations for improvement, taking into consideration the wide range of factors and requirements that affect the management of the medical center.
Skill in preparing project papers and reports.
Ability to organize and deliver oral and written briefings to managers to foster understanding and acceptance of findings and recommendations.
Ability to identify problems, analyze pertinent findings and circumstances, arrive at solutions/resolutions and assess impact of same.
Skill in leadership, initiative, self-direction, and motivation.
Ability to organize and prioritize work assignments, Ability to be flexible and assume a wide variety of administrative duties.
Or 

GS-11 Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. in a field related to this position. (Transcripts must be submitted with application)

Or

GS-11 Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond graduate level education (in excess of the first two years or 36 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. (Transcripts must be submitted with application)

Do you have the experience/education as described in the above? Please select the appropriate response.

NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.
 
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) as described above. I understand my resume must reflect my experience
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. in a field related to this position. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above. Transcripts must be submitted with application if basing qualifications off education.
 I do not possess the experience or education to meet the basic requirements for the position. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙