Position Title
Recreation Aid/ Cashier (COM REC)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12877484 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 01, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Non-Appropriated (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Work schedule will vary as required by the needs of the program to include weekends and holidays. Are you able to work this type of varied work schedule?
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years of experience do you have providing customer service?
 I have 2+ years of experience in the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in the above.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have using basic computer operations and keyboarding skills?
 I have 2+ years of experience in the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have operating a cash register or Point of Sale (POS) system?
 I have 2+ years experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙