Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-13023807-AR-26-158 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Information Management (DOIM) in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Information Management (DOIM) in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the GS 11 grade level that provided knowledge of and skill applying IT security principles, methods, and practices to participate in the development of IT goals, objectives, plans and policies; ability to analyze existing technology, formulate or modify plans to enhance functional users' Information Technology (IT)/communications status, and deal with a variety of problems and conditions associated with changing technology and its applications; and ability to conduct feasibility studies, perform cost analysis, and make recommendations to managers on how best to improve the IT communications posture; and evaluate the impact of new policy on current programs and modify, develop or recommend changes, which ensure compliance and responsiveness?
 Yes
 No


2.
In detail, explain your experience working directly and proactively with the state Information Technology team members, monitoring Operations Orders (OPORD) progress ensuring tasks are executed.


3.
In detail, explain your experience providing planning, consultation, and integration strategy for all IT services provided by the state IT department and functional teams.


4.
In detail, explain your experience managing vendor relationships for the CIO and coordinating all vendor presentations for staff education on possible technical solutions.


5.
In detail, explain your experience developing a long-range strategic and technical plan.


6.
In detail, explain your experience ensuring new IT systems and structures are in compliance with policies and guidelines.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙