Position Title
Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13027047 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
How much experience do you have in making a variety of fruit and vegetable salads, and simple sandwiches?
 I have experience in the food industry with making a variety of salads and simple sandwiches.
 I have experience in the food industry with making simple sandwiches.
 I have experience in the food industry with making a variety of salads
 I have no experience in the food industry with making salads or simple sandwiches


2.
How much experience do you have in preparing and handling food in the food service industry?
 I have 2 or more years experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry
 I have 1 - 2 years experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry.
 I have less than a year experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry
 I have no experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry


3.
How much experience do you have in operating a Point of Sale System?
 I have 2 or more years experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
 I have 1 - 2 years experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
 I have less than a year experience in operating a point-of-sale system.
 I have no experience in operating a point-of-sale system.


4.
What best describes your knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination?
 I have extensive knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 2 or more years of experience in the food service industry)
 I have a working knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 1 - 2 years working experience in the food service industry)
 I have little knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. less than 1 year of experience in the food service industry.)
 I have no knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. no work experience in the food service industry).


5.
Work involves frequent lifting or moving of objects weighing up to 30 pounds; constant standing and walking; and occasional lifting of over 45 pounds. Are you able to meet these work requirements?
 Yes, I am able to lift and move objects weighing up to 30 pounds; constant standing and walking; and I am able to lift objects weighing up to 45 pounds.
 No, I am NOT able to lift and move objects weighing up to 30 pounds; constant standing and walking; or lifting objects weighing up to 45 pounds.


6.
This position may be designated "ALPHA" personnel for inclement weather or in the interest of national security and may be required to report for work when other employees are excused. This position is subject to the possibility of working on weekends and holidays, as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. The staff member may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, as necessary to meet mission requirements. Are you able to work these requirements?
 Yes, I am able to work these requirements.
 No, I am NOT able to work these requirements


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙