Position Title
Supervisory HR Specialist (Director, Training and Employee Development Division)
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12995891-26-SM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you receive, or have you ever applied for, retirement pay, pension, or other retired pay based on military, Federal civilian, or District of Columbia Government service? (If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment).




 Yes
 No


3.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five (5) years?


 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that describes your qualifications for the Supervisory, Human Resources Specialist, GS-15.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as having experience in: • Directing agency-wide training and employee development programs, including strategic planning, budget management, workforce development, and aligning learning initiatives with organizational goals. • Leading the design, implementation, and evaluation of executive, managerial, supervisory, and employee development programs, including leadership succession planning and competency-based training. • Developing agency training policies, conducting workforce needs assessments, analyzing performance data, and implementing cost-effective learning strategies that improve organizational performance. • Advising senior executives on training, talent management, leadership development, and human capital strategies, while collaborating with government-wide partners such as OPM to implement workforce initiatives.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙