Position Title
Lead Human Resources Specialist (Employee Development)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCRB-26-12901459-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Baltimore, MD
 C. Philadelphia, PA
 D. Farmers Branch, TX
 E. Richmond, VA


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-14 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 One or more of the eligibilities I am applying through is a special appointing authority for which time-in-grade is not applicable. Examples: new VRA appointment, Military Spouse, EO 12721, 30% or more disabled veteran, person with disability applying under the Schedule A authority, Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment, Peace Corps, VISTA,VEOA, etc. (SPECIAL NOTE: Current Federal employees applying under the VEOA must meet TIG.)
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lead Human Resources Specialist (HR Development) position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Lead Human Resources Specialist (HR Development) at the GS-0201-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service?
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Which of the following best describes your experience with training and employee development?
 I have experience with three or more of the following: training design and implementation, developing and administering course evaluations, developing performance objectives, training methodologies, selecting appropriate learning venues, such as classroom, virtual, or blended.
 I have technical knowledge in all major steps of course design and development (task analysis, behavioral objectives, criteria tests, methods and media selection), course material development, development testing, validation, and evaluation
 I have had formal education and/or training which demonstrates some possession of the above.
 I do not possess experience or knowledge in the listed areas.


3.
Which of the following human resource development tasks have you performed? (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have independently conceived, developed, and integrated new approaches to course design and development.
 B. I have suggested and developed specific training to fill specific skill gaps.
 C. I have developed a training plan for one or more people.
 D. I have not performed human resource development tasks.


4.
Select the answer that best matches your experience:
 I have used various techniques to identify and evaluate program problems and have recommended innovative methods to resolve them.
 I have conducted the full range of training events or meetings.
 I have independently operated cameras, sound systems, or projectors, in support of training events.
 I have had formal education and/or training which demonstrates some possession of the above.
 I have not performed the above tasks.


5.
I have performed the following tasks in support of training events: (Select all that apply.)
 A. Established meeting space.
 B. Developed and distributed program announcements/communications to attendees.
 C. Coordinated attendee travel.
 D. Set up and operated audiovisual equipment.
 E. Created applications and submitted approval requests to state bar organizations for continuing legal education courses.
 F. Developed course evaluations and compiled data to evaluate student learning and training effectiveness.
 G. Developed training materials or worked with subject matter experts to develop training materials in a final, training-ready, format.
 H. Ordered training supplies.
 I. Served as instructor or host at a training event.
 J. I have not performed any of the above listed tasks.


6.
Which of the following have you performed as a routine part of your professional work experience? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Started and managed projects through completion.
 D. Established and monitored project progress.
 E. Made resource decisions for competing projects.
 F. Assigned tasks and monitored performance.
 G. Anticipated and resolved problems.
 H. I have not performed any of the above listed tasks.


7.
Select the answer that most closely matches your experience:
 I developed training for application in distance learning contexts, such as the virtual classroom environment or interactive video training.
 I have served as training/meeting host or instructor in a distance learning context and instructed others in the use of software functionality within a virtual classroom.
 I have participated in training events in a virtual classroom environment and am familiar with the common tools and methods used by participants to engage in learning activities with the instructor(s).
 I have had formal education and/or training which demonstrates some possession of the above.
 I have no experience with distance learning.


8.
Are you proficient in the use of the following software for use in employee development or training activities? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 B. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 C. Microsoft SharePoint or another web-based collaborative platform.
 D. Microsoft Word or other word processing software.
 E. Other word or spreadsheet processing software
 F. I do not have experience using the mentioned software applications


9.
Please select the equipment and technology you have used to perform employee development and training activities. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Video production and editing
 B. Sound equipment
 C. Projection equipment
 D. Video cameras
 E. I have not used the specified equipment or technology to perform employee development and training activities


10.
Which of the following types of documents have you prepared on the job?(Select all that apply.)
 A. I have prepared training presentations using software such as Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 B. I have drafted training plans/curricula for the purpose of developing continuing education.
 C. I have prepared outlines of training content.
 D. I have developed formal standard operating procedures.
 E. I have developed desk guides/job aids.
 F. I have prepared formal written guidance, program announcements, or instructions to customer groups.
 G. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my knowledge and demonstrated skill in this competency.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Which of the following verbal communication tasks have you performed on the job? (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have served as an instructor for a training course.
 B. I have presented formal briefings to management officials.
 C. I have facilitated meetings or conference calls that included formal agenda and meeting notes or minutes.
 D. I have briefed teams or working colleagues on administrative processes.
 E. I have coordinated needs and procedures with customers.
 F. I have worked with vendors, for example, to clarify discrepancies, gather information, or resolve issues.
 G. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my knowledge and demonstrated skill in this competency.
 H. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following leadership skills have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have experience as a team leader promoting staff engagement.
 B. I have been responsible for developing and/or providing interpretations of regulations, policies, and procedures based on existing precedents.
 C. I have reviewed completed work of others for accuracy.
 D. My experience in leading, mentoring, and/or motivating staff has been recognized as highly successful, e.g. through performance appraisal and/or awards.
 E. None of the Above.


13.
Which of the following best describes your experience in planning, coordinating and monitoring the work of others.
 I have experience setting my own priorities, handling multiple projects and setting my own deadlines.
 I have experience setting deadlines for projects and following up to ensure deadlines have been met.
 I have experience setting priorities for others, monitoring their workload and ensuring assigned work is completed.
 None of the above


14.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙