Position Title
ELECTROMOTIVE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-12911590-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a ELECTROMOTIVE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform ELECTROMOTIVE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex electronic systems and diagnose and determine needed repairs for malfunctions using knowledge of the entire system necessary to interpret data and trace back through a number of units of the system to locate the deficiency. I am skilled in repair and/or overhaul or modifying all major systems and components of electric-powered materials handling equipment and other self-propelled electric mobile equipment such as forklifts, stock selectors, rack loaders, pallet lacks, golf carts and battery chargers. I am skilled in repair, overhaul, modification to complex electronic integrated systems and components such as Alternating Current/Direct Current (AC/DC) electric drive motors, hydraulic or chain lift mechanism, steering apparatus, control boxes, relay panels. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of electromotive equipment mechanics performing the full range of duties in breakdown maintenance and overhaul of diesel, gas, propane forklifts and tow tractors. I am skilled in troubleshooting, repairing or replacing parts and other components. Use specific factory-developed test equipment when needed. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common repair and overhauls Alternating Current/Direct Current (AC/DC) electrical driven warehouse equipment. I can replace head gaskets and timing belts/chains on electromotive equipment. Remove rebuilds and installs hydraulic cylinders such as tilt, stirring, side and main lifting cylinders. Answer service calls. Make minor repairs and adjustments to equipment in field/shop location as needed. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple replacement or repairs of gear casing on electromotive equipment. Pulls wheels and repacks or replaces wheel bearings and changes ties on vehicles. Operates other machines and equipment to accomplish repair work. I have received training on Use all hand tolls common to the trade to perform minor repair work on mobile handling equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙