Position Title
Supervisory Realty Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12950198-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Realty Specialist, GS-1170-13 position with the Department of Defense. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Realty Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Managing real estate programs, including activities such as the disposal, outgranting (e.g., leases, licenses, easements), and administration of real property; AND 2) Providing policy and regulatory guidance concerning real estate activities to staff, management, and other stakeholders; AND 3) Directing the work of subordinate employees performing real estate functions to ensure compliance with program objectives and standards.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a situational judgement test (DJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are preparing the branch budget submission and notice that your workload data shows a 40% increase in outgrant renewals compared to last year, but your execution metrics indicate only 15% budget utilization in the outgrant execution category with two months remaining in the fiscal year. Your supervisor needs your budget input by end of week. Several team members have mentioned they're overwhelmed with outgrant workload. What do you do?

 Present both the workload data and execution metrics to your supervisor with a summary of the apparent contradiction, requesting guidance on how management would like you to proceed with the budget compilation before the deadline.
 Analyze the discrepancy by reviewing outgrant complexity, staffing changes, and process efficiencies before compiling a budget recommendation that addresses both the increased workload and underutilization, including proposed reallocation strategies and justification for next year's requirements.
 Focus on documenting the 40% workload increase to justify a larger budget request for next year, since the current underutilization might be a temporary anomaly that doesn't reflect actual resource needs going forward.
 Recommend maintaining the current budget level since the low execution rate demonstrates the branch has sufficient resources, and suggest that team members need better time management training to handle the increased outgrant volume.
 Compile the workload increase data with a recommendation to increase next year's outgrant budget by 40%, and separately notify your supervisor about the current year underutilization so management can decide whether to reallocate funds before fiscal year end.


2.
During a compliance inspection of a military property, you discover that a tenant is operating a small business from their government quarters in violation of established policies. The tenant explains they recently started the business due to financial hardship and were unaware of the policy. Your inspection report is due to your supervisor tomorrow, and you have three other inspections scheduled this week. How do you proceed?

 Note the violation in your inspection report and recommend that your supervisor handle the tenant notification directly, since this involves policy enforcement that may require management-level decision-making about potential exceptions or hardship considerations.
 Complete the inspection documentation noting the violation, verbally inform the tenant they must cease business operations immediately, and submit your report with a recommendation that your supervisor send official notification to the tenant and the installation commander.
 Provide the tenant with a verbal warning and allow them 30 days to transition the business elsewhere before documenting the violation, since this is their first offense and they were genuinely unaware of the policy restrictions.
 Document the violation in your inspection report with specific policy citations, provide the tenant with written notice of the non-compliance and a reasonable timeline to cease operations, and include recommendations for corrective action and follow-up inspection procedures in your report to your supervisor.
 Document the finding and inform the tenant of the policy violation, but recommend in your report that management consider the financial hardship circumstances when determining the appropriate enforcement action and timeline for compliance.


3.
A private development company contacts you requesting information about potential disposal of a 15-acre parcel adjacent to their property. They want to know the timeline, process, and likelihood of approval. Your supervisor is on leave for two weeks, and you know the district has been considering various options for this property, though no formal decision has been made. How do you respond?

 Provide the company with general information about the federal disposal process, required procedures, and typical timelines, while explaining that specific decisions about this parcel require management review and that you'll ensure their inquiry is forwarded to your supervisor for follow-up upon return.
 Inform them that your supervisor handles all disposal inquiries and will contact them upon return in two weeks, and suggest they research the federal disposal process online in the meantime to better understand the general procedures.
 Acknowledge their inquiry and explain that disposal decisions for this property are under management review, provide them with the standard disposal process information and relevant regulations, and inform them you'll have your supervisor contact them when available to discuss specifics.
 Respond with publicly available information about federal property disposal procedures and suggest they submit a formal written inquiry to the district, which will ensure proper routing to decision-makers and create an official record of their interest.
 Review the internal file on the property to provide them with detailed information about the district's current considerations and timeline, since they're a legitimate stakeholder and providing good customer service will facilitate the eventual disposal process.


4.
You're assisting in developing a new policy for processing license applications for telecommunications equipment on corps property. Your supervisor has asked for your input based on your experience with outgranting. You've noticed that current processing times average 120 days, but private sector partners have complained this is too slow. You also know that rushed reviews have occasionally resulted in compliance issues. What input do you provide?

 Propose reducing the standard processing time to 90 days by streamlining the review steps, and suggest implementing a tracking system to monitor compliance with the new timeline while maintaining current quality control procedures.
 Suggest maintaining the current 120-day timeline but improving communication with applicants about process status, and recommend developing standardized checklists to ensure consistent review quality while identifying any steps that could be made more efficient.
 Propose adopting the private sector's suggested 45-day timeline to improve customer service and competitiveness, with a provision allowing extensions for complex cases, since the current process is clearly inefficient if it takes nearly three times longer than industry expects.
 Recommend establishing a 60-day expedited process for simple applications and a 120-day process for complex ones, allowing the branch to be more responsive to industry needs while maintaining thorough review for higher-risk situations.
 Recommend a policy framework that establishes tiered review processes based on installation complexity and risk level, includes specific timeline standards for each tier, and incorporates quality control checkpoints while identifying resource requirements needed to meet reduced processing times.


5.
You're participating in the selection process for a gs-11 realty specialist position in your branch. Two candidates are highly qualified: candidate a has extensive private sector real estate experience but limited federal background, while candidate b has solid federal experience but weaker technical skills in complex negotiations. Your branch currently handles several high-profile disposal actions but also needs to improve compliance inspection quality. What input do you provide?

 Recommend selecting candidate a because private sector experience demonstrates initiative and adaptability, and federal procedures can be learned quickly through on-the-job training, whereas strong technical skills are inherent and difficult to teach.
 Propose interviewing both candidates with specific scenario-based questions about disposal actions and compliance inspections to better assess their problem-solving approaches, then make your recommendation based on their responses and overall interview performance.
 Recommend evaluating both candidates against the position's specific duties and current branch needs, considering candidate a's technical strength for disposal actions and candidate b's federal knowledge for compliance work, while assessing each candidate's capacity for development in their weaker areas and cultural fit with the team.
 Suggest selecting candidate a because the high-profile disposal actions require strong negotiation skills that are harder to develop, and recommend planning additional training on federal procedures and regulations to address the federal experience gap.
 Recommend candidate b since federal experience and understanding of government procedures are fundamental to the position, and suggest that technical negotiation skills can be developed through mentoring and training more easily than institutional knowledge.


6.
One of your gs-11 realty specialists has been consistently meeting deadlines and producing quality work, but you've noticed they rarely take initiative on complex issues and frequently seek guidance on matters you believe they should handle independently. Their annual performance evaluation is due next month. You want to establish performance standards that encourage more independent decision-making. How do you proceed?

 Document specific examples of situations where independent action was appropriate, include these observations in the performance evaluation with clear expectations for improvement, and establish new performance standards that explicitly define the level of independent judgment expected at the gs-11 grade.
 Rate the employee as fully successful since they're meeting deadlines and quality standards, but add a developmental goal for increased independence, and begin assigning them more complex work to force them to develop decision-making skills through experience.
 Discuss your observations with the employee during the performance evaluation, acknowledge their strengths in quality and timeliness, and establish performance standards for the next period that include specific metrics for independent decision-making and problem resolution.
 Schedule a developmental discussion before the evaluation to understand any barriers to independent decision-making, clarify your expectations for the gs-11 level, and collaboratively establish specific performance standards that define the types of decisions they should make independently while identifying support needed for their development.
 Revise the performance standards to include more specific language about independent decision-making expectations, then meet with the employee to explain the new standards and provide examples of situations where you expect them to act without seeking guidance.


7.
A team member comes to you with a complex question about whether a proposed easement on military property requires additional environmental review beyond what's already been completed. You've handled similar situations before, but this case involves some unique circumstances you haven't encountered. Your supervisor is available but is focused on a high-priority project. What do you do?

 Acknowledge the complexity and refer the team member to your supervisor for guidance since the unique circumstances make this an unprecedented issue that requires management-level decision-making, and document the referral for tracking purposes.
 Analyze the unique circumstances and provide your best guidance to the team member based on your experience with similar cases, document your recommendation and rationale, and inform your supervisor of the situation and your guidance for awareness.
 Work through the analysis with the team member by reviewing relevant regulations and comparing the unique circumstances to similar cases, use this as a coaching opportunity to develop their analytical skills, and consult with your supervisor if your joint analysis indicates the situation is truly unprecedented or high-risk.
 Provide guidance based on your experience with similar easements since the basic environmental review requirements are well-established, and instruct the team member to proceed with the standard process unless the reviewing agency raises concerns about the unique circumstances.
 Review the situation yourself to determine if it's truly unprecedented, provide the team member with guidance on the standard environmental review requirements, and refer them to your supervisor for final determination on whether the unique circumstances require additional review.


8.
You've identified that three team members need training in the new federal real property database system being implemented next quarter. The training is offered at headquarters (requiring travel and per diem) or virtually. The virtual option is free but has received poor reviews for technical issues. The in-person training costs $4,500 total but has excellent reviews. Your training budget has $5,000 remaining, but you may need funds for other developmental needs later in the year. How do you proceed?

 Propose sending one team member to in-person training to become a subject matter expert who can then train the other two, using the remaining budget for other developmental needs while ensuring the branch develops adequate database capability.
 Select the virtual training to preserve budget flexibility for unforeseen developmental needs, and plan to provide additional internal support and practice time to help team members overcome any technical issues with the virtual format.
 Recommend the in-person training since effective database proficiency is critical to branch operations and the $4,500 investment is justified by the quality difference, while identifying potential alternatives for other developmental needs if they arise later in the year.
 Evaluate the criticality of the database training versus other potential developmental needs, assess whether the virtual training's technical issues can be mitigated through supplemental support, and make a recommendation that balances training effectiveness, budget constraints, and overall branch developmental priorities.
 Request additional training budget from management by explaining that the virtual option is inadequate and the database system is critical to operations, since proper training is essential and shouldn't be compromised by arbitrary budget limitations.


9.
You're reviewing a disposal action prepared by a gs-11 specialist for a 50-acre parcel with potential wetlands and historical structures. The specialist's environmental analysis references a 5-year-old wetlands survey and recommends proceeding with disposal. You know that wetlands determinations older than 3 years typically require updates, and you notice the historical structure assessment doesn't mention consultation with the state historic preservation office (shpo), though you're uncertain if it's required for this property type. The disposal timeline is already tight. What action do you take?

 Note your concerns about the wetlands survey age and shpo consultation in the file, approve the action to maintain the timeline, and recommend that the acquiring party conduct updated environmental and historical reviews as part of their due diligence process.
 Return the action to the specialist with specific guidance to verify the wetlands survey currency requirements and shpo consultation requirements, provide relevant regulatory references, and explain that accurate environmental and historical compliance is essential regardless of timeline pressures, while offering to help identify any expedited review options if available.
 Approve the disposal action contingent on the specialist verifying that the 5-year-old wetlands survey meets current requirements and confirming whether shpo consultation is required, with instructions to halt the process if either issue requires additional work.
 Consult the environmental and historical preservation regulations yourself to confirm the requirements, then direct the specialist to obtain an updated wetlands survey and determine shpo consultation requirements, adjusting the disposal timeline as necessary to ensure compliance.
 Contact the district environmental and cultural resources specialists to determine whether the wetlands survey and shpo consultation are adequate, then provide the specialist with their guidance and any necessary corrections to the disposal action.


10.
A municipality has requested a 20-year lease for a water intake facility on corps property. Your specialist has negotiated terms including fair market rent, standard maintenance provisions, and termination clauses. However, you notice the draft lease doesn't address what happens if the corps needs the property for a future authorized project, and it lacks provisions for periodic rent adjustments. The municipality is pressing for quick execution to meet their infrastructure grant deadline. How do you handle this?

 Direct your specialist to add a standard reservation clause for future federal needs and a rent escalation provision based on established indices, then expedite the review process to help the municipality meet their deadline while ensuring the lease protects federal interests.
 Consult with the district counsel about whether the missing provisions are legally required or merely best practices, then make a decision based on their guidance and the municipality's deadline constraints, documenting the rationale for any provisions not included.
 Execute the lease as negotiated since the municipality's infrastructure grant deadline is a legitimate time constraint, and note in the file that future lease renewals should include reservation and rent adjustment clauses to improve the terms over time.
 Approve the lease with the current terms but add a provision requiring rent renegotiation at the 10-year mark and a standard termination clause that allows the government to reclaim the property with appropriate notice, balancing the municipality's timeline needs with basic federal protections.
 Require revision of the lease to include both a reservation of rights clause for future federal project needs and a rent adjustment provision with clear methodology, explain to the municipality that these are standard protective measures for long-term federal outgrants, and work with them to expedite the revision process while maintaining the necessary safeguards.


11.
You're supervising the development of a new policy for processing agricultural outgrant applications. Your team has drafted a policy that streamlines approvals for standard crop farming but maintains extensive review for livestock operations due to environmental concerns. A local farmers' association has submitted comments arguing that the livestock provisions are overly burdensome and inconsistent with neighboring federal agencies' policies. Your division chief wants your recommendation before the comment period closes. What do you recommend?

 Propose convening a meeting with the farmers' association, environmental staff, and neighboring agency representatives to discuss the concerns and identify potential policy modifications that address legitimate environmental risks while reducing unnecessary inconsistencies.
 Recommend maintaining the proposed livestock provisions based on corps-specific environmental responsibilities and mission requirements, but suggest adding clear criteria explaining when enhanced review is required and providing examples to improve transparency and predictability for applicants.
 Suggest implementing the policy as drafted for an initial trial period, with a commitment to review the livestock provisions after one year based on actual environmental outcomes and stakeholder feedback, allowing evidence-based refinement.
 Conduct a comparative analysis of neighboring agencies' livestock policies and environmental requirements, evaluate whether the draft policy's livestock provisions are appropriately risk-based or overly restrictive, and recommend revisions that maintain necessary environmental protections while improving consistency and reducing unnecessary burden where justified.
 Recommend revising the livestock provisions to align with neighboring agencies' policies since consistency across federal agencies is important for stakeholder relations and the current draft may expose the corps to criticism for being more restrictive than necessary.


12.
During a routine compliance inspection, you discover that a commercial tenant has subleased a portion of their space to another business without authorization. The original lease explicitly prohibits subleasing without written consent. The tenant has been otherwise compliant for 8 years, and the sublease has been in place for approximately 6 months. The unauthorized subtenant operates a business compatible with the property use. You need to determine the appropriate response. What do you do?

 Document the violation with specific lease citations, require immediate termination of the unauthorized sublease, and offer the tenant an opportunity to submit a formal subleasing request for review if they wish to continue the arrangement, while making clear that any approved sublease would require proper vetting, terms, and potentially additional rent.
 Document the violation and require the tenant to pay additional rent retroactive to when the sublease began, since the primary issue is that the government hasn't received appropriate compensation for the additional use, and the tenant's long compliance history suggests this was an oversight rather than intentional violation.
 Issue a formal notice of lease violation requiring the tenant to either terminate the sublease within 30 days or submit a retroactive subleasing application, and recommend that management consider the tenant's overall compliance history when determining whether to approve any subleasing request and what penalties, if any, are appropriate.
 Require the tenant to submit a formal subleasing application immediately and allow the current arrangement to continue during the review process, since the subtenant's business is compatible and disrupting an established operation could create unnecessary hardship while the application is evaluated.
 Meet with the tenant to discuss the violation and determine whether the sublease arrangement could be formalized through proper channels, document the violation and the tenant's explanation, and provide management with options ranging from lease termination to authorized subleasing with appropriate rent adjustment.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙