Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
OIS-2026-BY-12925561 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Hines, IL
 B. Austin, TX
 C. Martinsburg, WV



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Individual Occupational Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Information Technology Specialist, GS-2210-14.For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience. Specialized experience for this position is defined as directly related to the position and has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) to perform the duties of the position successfully. This includes experience in providing technical advice and assistance in the implementation and evaluation of a state, local, or federal public health program related to the identified program area. 
 Supervised Network Operations Center Staff: Managed and provided oversight, direction, and guidance to VA NOC staff responsible for monitoring the cybersecurity and operational status of VA applications and network systems. Established performance standards, evaluated subordinate performance, addressed grievances, recommended training using Individual Development Plans (IDP), and approved leave and travel for subordinates.
 Developed VA NOC Strategic Plan: Directed the development of VA Network Operations Center and centralized incident response capability strategic plans by creating long- and short-range plans. Advised and made recommendations to the Associate Director, VA NOC, concerning the feasibility of departmental Network Operations Center and central incident response capability priorities and implementation plans.
Conducted Cybersecurity Monitoring and Incident Response: Oversaw cybersecurity monitoring activities, including cybersecurity penetration testing, vulnerability scanning, event correlation and analysis, incident response management and mitigation, deep dive audit log analysis, baseline compliance, digital forensics analysis of suspected cyber incidents, and network security systems engineering, operations, and infrastructure support.
 Ensured Compliance with Policies and Regulations: Directed the network and cybersecurity operations center to ensure alignment with VA policies, regulatory requirements, and legislated mandates. Developed, promulgated, and reviewed network cybersecurity operations policies, procedures, and guidelines to implement federal laws and regulations. Provided guidance on policy implementation.
Provided Subject Matter Expertise: Advised and updated the Associate Director, VA NOC concerning cybersecurity operations center and incident response capability program operational issues. Developed strategies to address these issues and created cooperative relationships across the Department on cybersecurity operational issues.
Applied Security Policies and Measures: Applied security policies to applications that interface with one another, ensuring systems met security objectives. Implemented specific cybersecurity countermeasures, resolved vulnerabilities, mitigated risks, and recommended security changes to systems or system components as needed. Conducted vulnerability scans and recognized vulnerabilities in security systems.
Ensured Documentation and Compliance: Documented and updated all systems security operations and maintenance activities as necessary. Provided input to the Risk Management Framework process activities and related documentation, including system life-cycle support plans and operational procedures. Managed and created network access control lists on specialized cyber defense systems.
Collaborated with External Entities: Interacted with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Department of Defense (DoD), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and other federal agencies on sensitive cyber information. Participated in multi-agency meetings and conferences up to the Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) level. Ensured compliance with DHS classified systems, Einstein program, and US-CERT reporting/classifications, facilitating adherence to OMB mandated TIC level 3 requirements and ensuring the mitigation and response to cyber threats and vulnerabilities.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 in Federal service.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Selective Placement Factor: This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability, or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent the minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration. Evidence of the Selective Placement Factor must be reflected in your resume.


3.
Do you have experience in Cyber Security Operations, Trusted Internet Connections (TIC) 2.0 compliance, and classified information handling experience.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
1.
The incumbent is responsible for managing the VA's Cybersecurity Operations Center (CSOC) and incident response capabilities, ensuring continuous 24/7/365 operations.
 True
 False


2.
What is the primary responsibility of VA's Cybersecurity Operations Center?
 Financial auditing
 Network security monitoring and cybersecurity incident response capabilities for the enterprise
 Human resources management
 Facilities maintenance


3.
Which of the following is NOT a primary duty of the Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC)?

 Overseeing cybersecurity monitoring activities
 Managing digital forensic analysis of suspected cybersecurity incidents
 Direct involvement in patient care
 Ensuring baseline compliance


4.
The incumbent is responsible for enforcing performance standards and evaluating the performance of subordinates within the CSOC.
 True
 False


5.
Which laws or regulations, applicable to federal agencies, does the Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC) need to have knowledge of as they relate to cybersecurity and privacy?
 A. HIPPA
 B. Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 C. Patriot Act
 D. All of the above


6.
According to CISA's Cybersecurity Incident & Vulnerability Response Playbook, which of the below is the correct order of the Incident Response Lifecycle
 Detection & Analysis, Containment, Preparation, Eradication & Recovery, Post-Incident Activities
 Detection & Analysis, Preparation, Containment, Eradication & Recovery, Post-Incident Activities
 Preparation, Containment, Detection & Analysis, Eradication & Recovery, Post-Incident Activities
 Preparation, Detection & Analysis, Containment, Eradication & Recovery, Post- Incident Activities
 None of the above


7.
If a vulnerability is detected within a VA enterprise network system, what is the immediate action that the Supervisory IT Specialist (INFOSEC) should take?

 Check the CVE against the CISA KEV
 Notify CISA via the Incident Reporting Portal
 Document the vulnerability and wait for approval from senior management
 Initiate the Incident Response Plan
 Outsource the problem to a third-party vendor


8.
A Cyber Incident is defined as:
An occurrence that actually or potentially jeopardizes, without lawful authority, the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or an information system; or constitutes a violation or imminent threat of violation of security policies, security procedures, or acceptable use policies.

 True
 False


9.
Identify the federal agency that VA collaborates with for Trusted Internet Connection compliance.
 Department of Commerce
 Department of Education
 Department of Homeland Security
 Department of Treasury


10.
The CSOC has direct responsibility for the classification and reporting of cybersecurity incidents, vulnerability management queries and general cybersecurity based topics or inquires to CISA.

 True
 False


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙