Position Title
Chief Engineers (Artemis, Science, or Space Reactor Division)
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
HQ-26-SL-13008273 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
This announcement will be used to fill three vacancies. Please select the position(s) you would like to be considered for. You must choose at least one position and up to 3 positions.  You will only be considered for the position(s) that you select. Please note that the duty station varies by position. Be sure to review the duty station listed for each position before applying.
 A. Chief Engineer, Artemis (Duty Station at KSC, MSFC, or JSC)
 B. Chief Engineer, Science (Duty Station at HQ or GSFC)
 C. Chief Engineer, Space Reactors (Duty Station at GRC)


NASA Employee
1.
To be considered for this position, you must be a current NASA civil servant employee. This means you are a civil servant at NASA currently serving on a career, career-conditional, NASA term appointment with conversion eligibility, or other non-temporary appointments.

Are you a current NASA civil servant employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a CURRENT Federal Employee, please list your current pay plan, series and grade level/pay band. If you are not a current Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


3.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please list the HIGHEST pay plan, series, and grade level/pay band held. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


4.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please provide the DURATION of the highest grade held. For example, 01/10/19- Present or 09/08/19 to 06/30/20. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


Assessment 1
Instructions
Please ensure the information in your resume matches your answers to the questions. Please be sure your answers and resume are accurate, as NASA can only qualify you based on your responses. You may be rated ineligible if you do not meet the minimum qualification requirements of the position.


Education
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must have the required basic education from an accredited college or university.


1.
This position requires a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major study in engineering, physical science, mathematics, life sciences, computer science, or other field of science. Please select the response that best describes your education.
 I meet the basic education requirement.
 I do not meet the basic education requirement.


2.
Education completed outside of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or any territory or possession of the United States must be deemed equivalent to that gained in conventional/accredited U.S. education programs to be acceptable for Federal employment. Please select the response that best describes your education.
 I have a degree that was obtained by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 I have a foreign degree and the degree has been evaluated by a foreign credential evaluation service.
 I have a foreign degree but it has not been evaluated by a foreign credential evaluation service.
 None of the above.


Specialized Experience
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must be a recognized subject matter expert with at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-15 level in leading technical science or engineering teams and performing independent, in-depth technical assessments of flight hardware to identify, analyze, and mitigate technical risks across NASA programs and projects.


3.
Do you have the specialized experience described above?
 I have the required specialized experience.
 I do not meet or have the required specialized experience.


Senior Level (SL) Evaluation Criteria
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, your resume must address each of the Senior Level (SL) Evaluation Criteria.  Failure to address these qualifications will eliminate you from consideration.


4.
Will your resume address the SL Evaluation Criteria?
 Yes, my resume will address the SL Evaluation Criteria.
 No, my resume will not address the SL Evaluation Criteria and I will be rated ineligible.


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and that all responses to assessment questions and application materials are entirely my own work. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙