Position Title
Health Scientist Administrator (Program Officer)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-NIA-MP-26-13051139 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you an individual with a documented intellectual, severe physical, or psychiatric disability that substantially limits one or more major life activities? If so, you may be eligible for employment through a Schedule A appointment. 

In order to be eligible, documentation of the disability is required. Documentation of eligibility for employment under Schedule A can be obtained from a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional certified by a state, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory to practice medicine); a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (i.e., state or private); or any Federal agency, state agency, or agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits. The letter must include official office logo, stamp, or letterhead of a medical professional or it is invalid. Please visit OPM's website for sample letters. Learn more about Schedule A eligibility. 

Applying under "Schedule A" can be an expedited way to get a federal job, but it is only one of many options that may be available. You will still have to compete with other eligible applicants and meet all requirements of the position including the ability to perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodations. 

Based on the above, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a Schedule A appointment? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

A. Yes

B. No

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Short Answer
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Institutes of Health. Carefully read each question and all response options before selecting your answer. Some questions may be used to determine basic eligibility; responses may result in disqualification.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for a Health Scientist Administrator as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I have completed a 4-year course of study in an accredited college/university, leading to a bachelor’s or higher degree, with major study in an academic field of the health or pertinent sciences allied to health or health-related research.
 My education does not match the choice above.


2.
Select the response that best reflects the highest level of education you have attained.  This question is asked for informational purposes only.
 Professional Degree. For example, Law (LL. B. or J.D.), Medicine (M.D.), Chiropody or Podiatry (D.S.C. or D.P.), Optometry (O.D.), and Osteopathy (D.O.)
 Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
 Master's or equivalent degree
 Bachelor's degree (4-year degree)
 Associates degree (2-year degree)
 Some college, no degree
 My education does not match the choices above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Basic Qualification Requirements of a Health Scientist Administrator (Program Officer), GS-0601-14, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify for this position at the GS-14 level because I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: (1) Published as a primary or corresponding (i.e., communicates with editors) author in research publications, book chapters, or other scientific products (e.g., reports summarizing analyses and findings, patents); (2) Served as the lead presenter at scientific events (e.g., conferences, conventions) to advise on progress and emerging scientific direction; (3) Oversaw research projects by coordinating resources and managing timelines; (4) Conceptualized, initiated, and implemented scientific initiatives to enhance research efforts (e.g., multidisciplinary/cross-departmental collaboration); and (5) Evaluated research applications, proposals, or other material (e.g., reports) for compliance, relevance, and scientific/technical merit.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


4.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will remove you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, I may be removed from further consideration or future employment.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙