Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12882537 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 06, 2026 to Mar 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Have you documented a minimum of three year of general maintenance work, executing three or more of the following trades: Plumbing, Washer/Dryer repair, Carpentry, Painting, Electrical and/or Masonry skills on your resume?
 Yes, I have documented a minimum of three years of general maintenance work, executing three or more of the following trades: Plumbing, Washer/Dryer repair, Carpentry, Painting, Electrical and/or Masonry skills
 No, I have not documented a minimum of three years of general maintenance work, executing three or more of the following trades: Plumbing, Washer/Dryer repair, Carpentry, Painting, Electrical and/or Masonry skills


2.
How much experience do you have to work independently without more than normal supervision?
 5+ Years of working independently
 3-5 Years of working independently
 1 – 3 years of working independently
 Less than one year of working independently


3.
How much experience in three of the following positions have you documented on your resume: Plumbing, Washer/Dryer repair, Carpentry, Painting, Electrical and/or Masonry?
 5+ years of documented experience in a DoD operation.
 5+ years of documented experience in a civilian operation.
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in a DoD operation.
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in a civilian operation.
 3 to 4 years of documented experience in a DoD or Civilian operation
 2 to 3 years of documented experience in a DoD or Civilian operation
 Less than 2 years Or no documented experience in a DoD or Civilian operation.


4.
Are you able and willing to work weekend, holidays, as well as, rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙