Position Title
Trial Attorney (Asset Forfeiture Fellow)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRM-MNF-023 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


3.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

Do you have an intellectual, psychiatric or severe physical disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, please review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Interested applicants must possess a J.D., or equivalent, degree, be duly licensed and authorized to practice as an attorney under the laws of any State, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia, and be an active member in good standing of any bar. Do you meet the above conditions?
 Yes, I meet the above conditions.
 No, I do not meet the above conditions.


2.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade level, applicants must possess a J.D., or equivalent, degree.

Do you meet this experience requirement?
 Yes, I meet this experience requirement.
 No, I do not meet this experience requirement.


3.
To qualify at the GS-12 level, applicants must have at least one (1) year of post J.D. legal experience. Examples of specialized experience include: conducting legal research, drafting opinions and memoranda on criminal and civil matters, and assisting in preparation of dispositions.

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have at least one year of post J.D. legal experience as described above.
 I do not currently have one year of post J.D. legal experience. However, I expect to have one year of post J.D. legal experience by Fall 2026. If selected, I understand I may only be hired at the GS-12 level if I possess one year of post J.D. legal experience by my start date.
 No, I have less post J.D. legal experience than described above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade level, applicants must have at least one and a half (1.5) years of post J.D. legal experience, one of which was specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level. Examples of specialized experience include: performing legal analysis and formulating recommendations to senior managers; composing pleadings, briefs, and other court documents involving legal issues in civil or criminal litigation; and conducting civil or criminal litigation.

Do you meet these experience requirements?
 Yes, I have at least one and a half years of post J.D. legal experience as described above.
 No, I have less post J.D. legal experience than described above.


5.
What is your Law School class standing?
 Top 5%
 Top 6-10%
 Top 11-15%
 Top 16-25%
 Top 26-33% (top third)
 Top 34-50% (top half)
 Lower 50%
 Law School partially ranks some students by percentile, but I am not ranked.
 Law School does not rank students by percentile.


6.
What is your Law School Grade Point Average (GPA)?
 4.0 or equivalent
 3.5-3.99 or equivalent
 3.0-3.49 or equivalent
 2.5-2.99 or equivalent
 2.0-2.49 or equivalent
 1.99 or below
 J.D. Law School GPA Not Reported


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙