Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13055924-26-ES Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic and grade level requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


Basic Requirments


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. 

Are you a Citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education and/or Experience

The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below: (Must provide copy of transcripts)

(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.

or

(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.

or

(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy

Do you meet at least one of the requirements above? 
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification. (Must provide copy)

Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist.

Do you possess the required certification?
 Yes
 No


4.
State Licensure. (Must provide copy)

Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia

Do you possess the required State Licensure ?
 Yes
 No


5.
English Proficiency.

Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Grade Determinations: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Occupational Therapist, GS-9

(1) Education, Experience, or Licensure. None beyond the basic requirements.

(2) Assignments. Individuals assigned at the GS-9 grade level serve as OT practitioners in a career development position progressively expanding their ability to provide assessment and treatment interventions for a wide range of human function systems. The entry level therapist has a basic foundation of OT and generally practices independently. OTs at this level typically have guidance from more experienced therapists. OTs that are not licensed must practice under the supervision of a licensed OT.

Do you meet the basic requirements to this position?
 Yes
 No


7.
Occupational Therapist, GS-11

(1) Education, Experience, or Licensure.

(a) Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled;

or

(b) Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field;

or

(c) Doctorate in occupational therapy.

(2) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the [experience or education above, the candidate] must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
(b) Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
(c) Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
(d) Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
(e) Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
(f) Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
(g) Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.

Do you possess the experience and can demonstrate Knowledge Skills and Abilities at this grade level?
 Yes
 No


8.
Occupational Therapist, GS-12

(1) Education, Experience, and Licensure. Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

(2) Demonstrated KSAs. In addition to the [experience above, the candidate] must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice. Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
(b) Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
(c) Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
(d) Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
(e) Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.

Do you possess the experience and can demonstrate the Knowledge Skills and Abilities at this grade level?
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminders - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
1. - Job title
2. - Duties (be as detailed as possible)
3. - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
4. - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
5. If you are selected, you may be required to submit additional information regarding your level of knowledge, skills and abilities required for this position.
6. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume.
7. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
8. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title.
9. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Licensure /Certification/ Transcripts Reminder: To verify you meet the basic requirements, you must provide a copies of relevant transcripts, certification and licensures.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙