Position Title
Employment Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
346-26-CTS-13002903-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Oakland, CA
 C. Honolulu, HI
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Salt Lake City, UT
 G. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Area of Consideration - This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Seattle or SeaTac, WA; Albuquerque, NM; Phoenix, AZ; Oakland, CA; Las Vegas, NV; Honolulu, HI; Salt Lake City, UT.  Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. For purposes of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting areas of these locations are considered facility employees. Applicants may only apply to their respective Regional Office.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Seattle or SeaTac, WA, Albuquerque, NM, Phoenix, AZ, Oakland, CA, Las Vegas, NV,  Honolulu, HI or Salt Lake City, UT Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP? For purposes of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area of the locations listed are considered facility employees.
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent appointment SF-50 as defined in the Required Document section of this Job Announcement.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME IN GRADE - Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
At the GS-09 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-09 or higher grade.
 Neither A or B applies to me


3.
At the GS-11 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-11 or higher grade.
 Neither A or B applies to me


4.
At the GS-12 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-12 or higher grade.
 Neither A or B applies to me


Specialized Experience: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for the grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


5.
GS-09 Level: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization or a Masters or equivalent degree OR two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. Specialized experience is defined as experience involving job networking, development and/or placement and employment assistance to various groups of individuals. The experience may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:

- Recruiting for/placing candidates for a hiring firm or large corporation;
- Employment assistance duties for a non-profit or community organizations;
- Human Resources experience in staffing, employee relations or reemployment assistance.
 I have one year of specialized experience as described above equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I have a Masters Degree or graduate degree OR two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED WITH YOUR APPLICATION)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and MASTERS education as described in "B" which meets 100% of the total requirement for experience and/or education. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED WITH YOUR APPLICATION)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
GS-11 Grade Level: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization or education of one year of post-master's degree professional vocational rehabilitation counseling experience or successful completion of 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or have a PH.D or equivalent doctoral degree in rehabilitation counseling or counseling psychology.

Specialized experience is defined as experience working with individuals with disabilities and providing individuals with work experiences, internships, or volunteer experiences related to overall employment goal. The experience may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:

- Employment assistance duties for state or federal vocational rehabilitation offices;
- Account management/liaison for staffing or employment firms in the public or private sector;
- Federal Human Resources experience in staffing, employee relations or reemployment assistance.
 I have one year of specialized experience as described above equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I have one year of post-master’s degree professional vocational rehabilitation counseling experience or successful completion of 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or have a PH.D or equivalent doctoral degree in rehabilitation counseling or counseling psychology. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED WITH YOUR APPLICATION)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which meets 100% of the total requirement for experience and/or education. (TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED WITH YOUR APPLICATION)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


7.
GS-12 Grade Level: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience which was at the (GS-11) level and must have been held in the Federal Government. Specialized experience is defined as experience involving coordination of federal, private and public hiring authorities, working with Veterans with disabilities to access Veteran's employment goals and aligning them to the employment track that best meets their needs. Direct delivery of vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs, other than those in correctional facilities. 

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:

- Human Resources experience in the Department of Veterans Affairs or Veterans Service Organization that involves staffing and/or employment law;
- Employment coordination duties for private, public or government entities that involve coordinating targeted outreach at various career fairs, jobs clubs, and/or job labs.
 I have one year of specialized experience as described above equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience as described above.


Certification: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙