Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12860237-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 06, 2026 to Jan 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist - Home Oxygen Coordinator position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


1.
English Language Proficiency. Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.


Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
Education:
Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.  The CoARC is the accrediting body for respiratory programs at colleges and universities. 

Do you meet the required education requirement as listed above? (A copy of completed transcripts are required when submitting application)
 Yes. (A copy of completed transcripts are required when submitting application)
 No.


2a.
Please list the below information in regards to the above Education. Otherwise, indicate N/A 
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Accredited by CoARC: 
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred/Expected Completion Date: 


3.
Licensure:
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you have a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?
 Yes.
 No.


3a.
Please provide your License information below:
License Number:
State License was obtained:
Original Issue date of License:
Expiration Date of License:


4.
Credential:.
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Note- Exception. RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below. (a) VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level


Do you hold the RRT credential that is stated above?
 Yes. (A copy of valid RRT certification is required if RRT has been obtained prior to the submission of your application).
 I am currently in the process of working toward completion of my RRT credential and have otherwise successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state.
 No.


Grandfathering Provision. The following is the standard grandfathering policy for all hybrid title 38 qualification standards. Some of these provisions may not apply to this occupation. Please carefully review the qualification standard to determine the specific education, credential or certification requirements that apply to this occupation. All persons employed in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series and performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education, credential or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
Employees in an occupation that requires a licensure, certification or registration, may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level or demoted within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the full performance level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
Employees in an occupation that requires a licensure, certification or registration only at higher grade levels must meet the licensure, certification or registration requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels.
Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure, certification or registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
If an employee who was retained in an occupation listed in 38 U.S.C. § 7401(3) under this provision leaves that occupation or employment with the VA, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation and/or VA


Grade Specific Requirements


5.
GS 5 Registered Respiratory Therapist (Entry Level)
Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
Education. None beyond the basic requirements.
Licensure. None beyond the basic requirements. 


Do you meet the basic requirements as stated and listed in the above announcement text?

 Yes.
 No.


6.
GS 7 Registered Respiratory Therapist (Developmental level)
Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.

Note- The exception above is for the GS 5 entry level only. At the GS 7 grade level and above the RRT credential is required.


Do you hold the required RRT credential?
 Yes.
 No.


7.
GS 7 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's): In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care
Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you possess the above KSA's at the GS 7 grade level?


 Yes.
 No.


8.
GS 9 Registered Respiratory Therapist (Developmental level)

Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential.
Experience- One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level;

OR
Education-  A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.


Do you possess the required Experience or Education and Licensure and Credential requirement?
 Yes. I possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
 Yes. I possess A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential. (A valid copy of completed transcripts showing Masters degree was completed, Copy of Licensure and Credential are required when selecting this response at the time application is submitted)
 No. I do not meet Experience and Or Education requirement.


9.
GS 9 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's): In addition to meeting the above experience, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.

Do you meet the above KSA's at the GS 9 grade level?
 Yes.
 No.


10.
GS 11 Registered Respiratory Therapist (Full Performance Level)
One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
AND
Hold an active license AND RRT credential.

Do you meet the GS-11 experience or education requirement as listed above?
 Yes. ( A valid Copy of Licensure and Credential are required when selecting this response at the time application is submitted).
 No.


11.
GS 11 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's): In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Do you possess the above KSA's at the GS 11 grade level?
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙