Position Title
Cashier
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
CP-25-12753941 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 03, 2025 to Jul 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Aid, NF-0189-01 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have work experience in a food and beverage related activity as a cashier?
 I have more than one (1) year work experience in this related activity or facility.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year work experience in a related activity or facility.
 I have less than six (6) months work experience in a related activity or facility.
 I have no previous work experience in a related activity or facility.


2.
Do you have general experience in operating a Point of Sale (POS) system?
 I have more than (1) year of experience in POS systems
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year if experience in POS systems
 I have less than six (6) months of experience in POS systems
 I have no experience in POS systems


3.
Are the answers you've provided in this questionnaire supported by your resume?
 Yes, all the answers I have provided in this questionnaire regarding my experience level are reflected in my resume.
 No, my resume does not support the experience levels I've provided in this questionnaire. I understand that by not supporting ALL answers by my resume, my application will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙