Position Title
PRIMARY PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ND-12947739-AR-26-007 (T5) Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 28, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Priority Placement Program DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement: I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the "Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions (6 items)
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in determining your eligibility to be considered for the position. For each of the statements below, select yes or no, and provide a narrative response that demonstrates your education, experience, and training.  Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume, transcripts, or application and information provided by your references.



1.
Please select the option below that demonstrates how you meet the Basic Requirements for this position.
 I have a degree in behavioral or social science.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated the acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not meet the basic requirement for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience at the GS 09 grade level or civilian equivalent which includes: 1) Experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; 2) Preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; 3) evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources; 4) Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess 1 year of experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions?


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.
Do you possess one year of experience preparing professional reports, plans, policies and various correspondence?


4a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


5.
Do you possess one year of experience evaluating objectives and developing plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources?


5a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


6.
Do you possess one year of experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions?


6a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


7.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙