Position Title
AVIATION RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12845103-AF-25-4527 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Friday, December 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer the following question/(s):



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?
 Yes
 No


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE: Experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Applicants who have the 1 year of appropriate specialized experience, as indicated in the table, are not required by this standard to have general experience, education above the high school level, or any additional specialized experience to meet the minimum qualification requirements.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙