Position Title
Auditor - Contracts & Supply Management Directorate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-26-02B-12805663-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 30, 2025 to Oct 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Public:(External to Agency) - Current Career United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General, United States Postal Service and United States Postal Inspection Service WILL NOT be considered or selected from this vacancy announcement.  Do you meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Carol Stream, IL
 B. Bethesda, MD
 C. Arlington, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


3.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


5.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


6.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - U.S. Public:
This announcement is open externally to U.S. Citizens and nationals only.

All others will be deemed ineligible on this announcement.

Do you meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Qualification for Auditor (0511) Eligibility

The Auditor (0511) position has specific educational requirements. To qualify, applicants must possess a degree in auditing or a related field (see below). Alternatively, applicants may qualify through a combination of education and experience that provided professional auditing knowledge.

List of Accepted Degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to:
Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to:
Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technical Related, including but not limited to:
Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
Select the option that best describes how you meet the qualification requirement for this position.

Important Note: You must upload transcripts and/or supporting documentation to verify your selection.
 I have a business-related degree such as Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
 I have a government-related degree such as Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
 I have a technical-related degree such as Engineering, Cybersecurity, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of full-time professional experience in performance auditing, or an equivalent mix of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge.
 I do not meet either the education or the combination of education and experience requirements described above.


3.
Experience Qualification Requirement:

Please select which matches your level of experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 Less than one (1) year of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits.
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits.
 More than two (2) years but less than three (3) years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits.
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits.
 Four (4) or more years of professional experience conducting financial, program and/or performance audits.


4.
Do you have a Professional Certification, such as a CPA, CFE, CIA, CISA, etc? (You must submit a copy of the certification. Not required)
 Yes
 No


5.
Career Ladder Opportunity Information & Requirements

This is a Journey Band Career Ladder position. The Career Ladder program provides for annual pay increases through the pay band based on specific requirements.

Note about the Journey Band: The US Postal Service Office of Inspector General is Excepted Service, uses pay bands, and our Journey Band covers equivalents of GS-07 through GS-13. This specific announcement covers GS-11 through GS-13 equivalents.

If approved, the employee will receive (on their anniversary date) an increase in base salary of:
Six (6) percent OR
The amount needed to bring salary to Step-1 of the next equivalent GS grade, whichever is greater.
Approval is dependent on the managers certification that:
The employee can perform satisfactorily at the next GS equivalent grade, AND
They receive a PES (evaluation) rating of "Met Expectations" or higher.
Once the employee has reached the equivalent GS-13 level they have graduated from the Career Ladder program and future increases are covered by the Performance Evaluation System (PES).

Please acknowledge you have read the above summary of the Career Ladder program. You may have an opportunity to ask more about this program during the interview stage.
 Yes
 No


6.
In-Office Requirement:

The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the selected office location for which you are selected.

Are you able to meet that requirement?
 Yes
 No


7.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation

Important Resume Update: Your resume must not exceed two (2) pages. You will no longer be considered for this announcement if your resume exceeds the two page limit. It is essential that your resume and supporting documentation provide sufficient information to substantiate your qualifications for the announced position (categorize as "Resume"). Additional guidance on writing a federal resume can be found at: USAJOBS Help Center - How do I write a resume for a federal job?

Make sure your page margins are 0.5 inches. The recommended font styles are Sans-Serif, Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open Sans, Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noto Sans. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages.

This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct document type.

For example:
Transcripts must be uploaded under the Transcripts document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


8.
Certification of Accuracy:
 

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙