Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Assistant Special Agent in Charge)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-FO-IMP-12778402-RT Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 22, 2025 to Sep 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Boston, MA
 B. Newark, NJ
 C. Columbus, OH
 D. Portland, OR
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. El Paso, TX


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 grade level applying ATF law enforcement investigative techniques in order to direct a major field component of the Bureau; and executing and coordinating criminal enforcement programs to make operational decisions regarding investigations of a criminal nature.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you a current internal ATF employee in the competitive service serving on a career or career-conditional appointment, or CTAP eligible?
 Yes
 No


3.
Choose the below statement that best describes how you resolve conflicts within your office.

 I attempt to gather the personnel involved, facilitate discussion to clear the air and clarify positions, then seek common ground among the dissenting person(s).
 I meet with and gather information from the personnel involved, and if appropriate, I modify my position, thereby diffusing tension
 I modify my position to include the other person?s opinions and ideas, or persuade them to accept my ideas and options, thereby diffusing tension.
 I dictate and clarify policy, chain of command, and my expectations of compliance.
 I avoid difficult or contentious conversations with the antagonist, and allow the tension to diffuse over time.
 I have no experience in this area.


4.
Choose the statement below that best describes how you inspire employees and facilitate a cohesive team environment.

 I encourage the open expression of opinions and involve my employees in the decision making process.
 I set the tone for a positive work environment by displaying a committed, enthusiastic, and professional demeanor.
 I focus on my employee?s strengths, not weaknesses, and recognize them when they achieve their goals.
 After establishing clear, attainable objectives and performance measures, I then allow my employees the opportunity to exercise creativity in achieving those goals.
 I have no experience in this area.


5.
Choose the statements that best describes your ability to foster an inclusive workplace where diversity and inclusion are valued and leveraged to achieve the mission of the group. (check all that apply)

 A. I have successfully avoided and/or effectively managed EEO complaints and grievances and/or worked with the Ombuds Office and/or Office of Chief Counsel on management and employee relations issues.
 B. I supervise and foster an inclusive workplace by thoughtfully developing diverse teams when making investigative assignments/operations (e.g. undercover, surveillance, interview).
 C. When budget and/or mission requirements permit, I regularly attend diversity events and approve my subordinates to participate in these events as well (diversity conferences, celebrations, presentations).
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


6.
Choose all the statements that best describe your experience in leading a multi-agency investigation. (Check all that apply)

 A. I have met with participating law enforcement agencies of a multi-agency investigation to discuss the jurisdiction and organizational conflicts that arise during the course of the investigation.
 B. I have meet with prosecutors (Federal and State) on multi-agency investigations to discuss the jurisdictional issues and procedural processes during the course of the investigation.
 C. I have met with other Federal agencies of multi-agency investigations to discuss the investigative techniques/tactics and prosecution issues during the course of the investigation.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to develop and implement enforcement strategies within your area of responsibility.
 I have developed objectives and priorities for my office, consistent with my Frontline Domain Assessment, and communicate reasonable performance measures to my employees to gauge our effectiveness.
 I have interacted with external agencies in an effort to diagnose crime trends, negotiate for resources, and develop/implement solutions to local and bureau-wide issues.
 I have participated in Bureau wide efforts, such as reviewing and providing feedback on proposed Orders and Briefs, and relay that information to my employees
 I have no experience in this area.


8.
Choose the statement that best represents your knowledge and execution of personnel programs, policies and procedures.

 I have no experience in this area.
 I have extensive experience in dealing with personnel programs, policies and procedures (e.g. disciplinary/performance issues, interview panels, award recognition, office inspections, etc.).
 I have a good general working knowledge of personnel programs, policies and procedures.
 I am very familiar with and I know who to contact in Headquarters to assist in these matters.


9.
Choose all the statements that describe the level of innovation that you have demonstrated in your current or previous positions. (Check all that apply)

 A. I have developed and implemented original solutions to problems which presented challenges to my office.
 B. I have creatively resolved a resources issue that resulted in significant savings
 C. I have made suggestions regarding the use of advanced criminal investigative techniques to a USAO or local DA Office that resulted in a successful prosecution.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


10.
Select all of the statements that best describe steps you have taken when implementing change in your office. (Check all that apply)

 A. I communicate the vision clearly and link the steps in the process to the overall vision.
 B. I create a sense of urgency to help spark the initial motivation to get things moving.
 C. I convince people that change is necessary and build coalitions with key individuals.
 D. I create and identify short term ?wins? in route to the overall vision to keep the team motivated and focused.
 E. I have not implemented any changes.


11.
Choose all the statements that best describe your highest level of building coalitions and communications (i.e. modeling professionalism; resolving differences of opinion; sharing information; developing rapport; considering factors in organizational and situational realities (internal and external) when determining how best to advance or achieve organizational objectives.

 A. I have effectively represented my organization internally through networking and communications to advance the organizations mission in order to ensure accomplishments of the organization?s goals and mission.
 B. I have worked with my Division PIO and HQ Legislative Affairs personnel to meet with Congressional leaders and media representatives within my area of responsibility to convey ATF?s accomplishments within their districts.
 C. I have interacted with Federal, State and local officials in handling complex investigative activities for successful investigations and prosecution of cases.
 D. I have no experience in this area.


12.
Choose the below statements that best describe your understanding of technology or technological support in furthering our agency's mission: (Check all that apply)

 A. Through liaison with other agencies, I routinely identify and adopt their data mining practices and computer intelligence programs/databases, for use within ATF.
 B. I encourage all of the law enforcement agencies within my area of responsibility to trace all of their recovered crime and guns and submit firearms/casings evidence for IBIS testing.
 C. I ensure that my employees are proficient with all internal ATF databases, and that they embrace the use of intelligence and technology to guide them in our investigations.
 D. I have insisted that groups and personnel under my supervision adhere to the newest policies and requirements for ATF?s intelligence-Led Policing program, such as the use of multi-agency information sharing and deconfliction systems.
 E. I have sought out products, applications or other technology for ATF to consider for use to support our mission.
 F. I have volunteered to provide input and feedback in ATF efforts to upgrade major systems, such as NForce, BATS, Analysts Notebook, etc, or saw to it that my employees were detailed to those efforts to represent my division?s interest.
 G. I ensure that my employees are proficient with all internal ATF databases, such as N-Force, eTrace and BATS, and that they embrace the use of intelligence and technology to guide them in our investigations.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


13.
Choose the statements that best describe your ability to strategically manage personnel resources. (Check all that apply)

 A. I effectively manage my workforce based on organizational goals, priorities, staffing and budgets.
 B. I consistently ensure that employees are appropriately recruited, selected, trained, supervised, appraised and rewarded as well as address performance problems.
 C. I have been responsible for the assignment / reassignment of personnel to teams in an effort to meet changing workloads and needs of the teams.
 D. I identify employee relations problems and have acted to transfer employees to address them.
 E. None of the above


14.
Select the choice that best describes your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on case status and/or problems requiring resolution.

 I have no experience in performing this task.
 I have reported primarily to my immediate and second-level supervisors, either formally or informally, on case status and/or problems requiring resolution.
 I have given informal or formal briefings to SES officials in the organization on case status and/or problems requiring resolution.
 I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to SES level officials both within and outside my organization regarding case status and/or problems requiring resolution.


15.
Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill in being results driven (i.e. making timely decisions and producing results through strategic planning, performance measurements, and implementing and evaluating programs and policies).

 I have no experience in this area.
 I have personally developed short-and long-term goals that were applied in furthering investigative activities.
 I have assisted in formulating short- and long-term goals that were incorporated into strategic program plans to further investigative activities.
 I have experience in formulating strategic program plans that assesses investigative feasibility and developing realistic short- and long-term goals; setting investigative standards, and ensuring accountability for achieving standards.


16.
Choose the below statement that best describes your skill and experience in solving problems.

 When diagnosing problems, I start by gathering sufficient information and then engaging with my employees to gain their insight, while developing possible solutions and monitoring the implementation.
 I?ll assign ownership of certain problems to specific employees, to allow them the opportunity to research and develop solutions, and to grow from the experience.
 When I encounter problems, I seek input from my supervisor to develop a solution.
 I have limited experience in this area.
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?

 Yes
 No


18.
The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?

 Yes
 No


19.
Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.

 Yes
 No


20.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙