Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representative)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
323-26-AA-13045349-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is open ONLY to status candidates covered under the hiring eligibility and hiring paths listed for this job announcement, in the local, Biloxi, MS commuting area. Veterans who are eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) and current permanent VBA employees holding this grade or higher need not to live in the local commuting area to be considered. Local commuting area means the geographic area that usually constitutes one area for employment purposes. It includes any population center (or two or more neighboring ones) and the surrounding localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment).


1.
Do you currently reside in the local, Biloxi, MS commuting area and meet one of the hiring eligibilities listed in the announcement?
 Yes, I reside in the local Biloxi, MS commuting area and meet one of the hiring eligibilities.
 No, but I am a veteran eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA).
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


INSTRUCTIONS: Applicants who claim local commuting area residency may be required to provide documents (such as a state ID, utility bill, or lease) to verify residence. Failure to provide verification upon request may result in removal from consideration. Please ensure the address you list in your application/resume matches your answer below. Inconsistencies may result in removal from consideration.


2.
Please provide your current full residential address (street, city, state, zip).



The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time-in-grade requirement. Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Select the response that best represents your eligibility for this position. Note that if you previously held a higher grade, you must submit an SF-50 showing that grade as well as a current SF-50.


3.
GS-07 Time-in-Grade - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-07 or higher grade.
 I have NOT held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) and therefore time-in-grade requirements do not apply to me.
 I am eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority (i.e., Schedule A, 30% or more disabled veterans, VRA etc.) and therefore time-in-grade requirements do not apply to me.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks), but I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-05 level or higher, and I am not eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority as described above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


4.
GS-09: Time-in-Grade - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-09 or higher grade.
 I have NOT held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) and therefore time-in-grade requirements do not apply to me.
 I am eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority (i.e., Schedule A, 30% or more disabled veterans, VRA etc.) and therefore time-in-grade requirements do not apply to me.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks), but I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 level or higher, and I am not eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority as described above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


5.
GS-10: Time-in-Grade - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-10 or higher grade.
 I have NOT held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) and therefore time-in-grade requirements do not apply to me.
 I am eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority (i.e., Schedule A, 30% or more disabled veterans, VRA etc.) and therefore time-in-grade requirements do not apply to me.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks), but I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher, and I am not eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority as described above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this vacancy does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50, placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


6.
VBA Non-Competitive Consideration - Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?

 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


7.
What is your current grade?



8.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?



Please ensure your resume clearly supports your responses to the questions below. We will not make any assumption about your experience.


9.
GS-7: Which of the following statements best describes your job-related experience that qualifies you for the Legal Administrative Specialist (Public Contact Outreach Specialist) position at the GS-7 level? Select only one response.

 For a GS-07 position you must serve 52 weeks at the GS-05. To qualify at the GS-7 level you must have completed 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-5 level (specialized experience listed below). Specialized experience is defined as (1) The ability to work with direct supervision or guidance when providing customer service, benefit counseling, and claim processing. (2) The individual must possess knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree with superior academic achievement (2.95 and higher) which has provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position or one full year of graduate level education (18 credit hours) in an accredited college or university. [NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS for your education to be considered.]
 I have less than the full amount of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education as described in "B". But I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B above. [NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.]
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements therefore I am not qualified.


10.
GS-9: Which of the following statements best describes your job-related experience that qualifies you for the Legal Administrative Specialist (Public Contact Outreach Specialist) position at the GS-9 level? Select only one response.

 For a GS-09 position you must serve 52 weeks at the GS-07. To qualify at the GS-9 level you must have completed 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-7 level (specialized experience listed below). (1) The individual must possess moderate knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (2) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs.
 I have successfully completed a master's degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. [NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS for your education to be considered.]
 I have less than the full amount of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education as described in "B". But I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B above. [NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.]
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements therefore I am not qualified.


11.
GS-10: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the Legal Administrative Specialist (Public Contact Outreach Specialist) at the GS-10 grade level.

 For a GS-10 position you must serve 52 weeks at the GS-09. To qualify at the GS-10 level you must have completed 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-9 level (specialized experience listed below). Specialized experience is defined as (1) experience that has demonstrated the capability of being a self-reliant decision-maker and possessing the ability to work independently when providing customer service benefits, counseling and claims processing. (2) The individual must possess in-depth knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs.
 I have equivalent of 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. [NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.]
 I have less than the full amount of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education as described in "B". But I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B above. [NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.]
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements therefore I am not qualified.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


12.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙