Position Title
Fitness/Aquatic Specialist - Facility
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12843684 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Friday, December 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Years of experience gained which shows the knowledge to competently and independently carry out the fitness facility usage to the specific needs of the fitness center patrons.
 5+ years of documented experience in a DoD fitness operation
 5+ years of documented experience in a fitness operation in the civilian sector
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in a DoD fitness operation
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in a fitness operation in the civilian sector
 3 to 4 years of documented experience in a DoD or Civilian sector fitness operation
 2 to 3 years of documented experience in a DoD or Civilian sector fitness operation
 1 to 2 years of documented experience in a DoD or Civilian sector fitness operation
 Less than 1 year Or no documented experience in a DoD or Civilian sector fitness operation


2.
Knowledge of and skill in the maintenance and use of fitness equipment to maintain equipment in optimum operation condition and ability to provide instruction on safe and proper use.
 5+ years of documented knowledge of and skill in maintenance and use of fitness equipment in a DoD fitness operation
 3 to 5 years of documented knowledge of and skill in maintenance and use of fitness equipment in a DoD or civilian sector fitness operation
 1 to 3 years of knowledge of and skill in maintenance and use of fitness equipment in a DoD or civilian sector fitness operation
 Less than 1 year or no documented knowledge of and skill in maintenance and use of fitness equipment in a DoD or civilian sector fitness operation


3.
Years of experience supporting the daily operations of a fitness center (e.g., opening/closing facility, monitoring access, scheduling, inventorying supplies, administrative paperwork, etc.) have you documented on your resume.
 5+ years of documented experience in supporting the daily operations of a fitness center
 3 – 5 years of documented experience in supporting the daily operations of a fitness center
 1 – 3 years of documented experience in supporting the daily operations of a fitness center
 Less than one year or no documented experience in supporting the daily operations of a fitness center


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙