Position Title
Inspector General
Agency
National Endowment for the Arts
Announcement Number
ST-12967103-26-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you meet the following Civil Service Eligibility?

Current Federal Civil Service employees, which includes all persons who occupy positions in the executive (includes excepted service), judicial, and legislative branches, except positions in the uniformed services (the armed forces, the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, and the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration).

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your current employment in the civil service.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.


 Yes
 No


2.
Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Hiring Eligibilities:
Current Career member of the Senior Executive Service (meaning you are serving in a Career Reserve SES position or that you are serving in a General SES position and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ's) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management), SF-50 required
Graduate of an Office of Personnel Management certified Candidate Development Program (please submit a copy of your certification)  
SES reinstatement eligible (This means that you were previously employed as a Career SES member and that you completed your one year probationary period)
Note: You must submit documentation to support any eligibilities for which you wish to be considered.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Does your resume demonstrate accomplishments that would satisfy MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (MTQ) 1: Audit and Investigation Program Leadership and Oversight - Demonstrated executive-level knowledge and ability to direct an independent and objective audit and investigation organization, including setting audit objectives and policies, supervising audits and investigations of NEA programs and operations, and promoting economy and efficiency while preventing and detecting fraud and abuse.
 Yes, my resume does demonstrate accomplishments that would satisfy these technical qualifications.
 No, I am not qualified for this position.


2.
Does your resume demonstrate accomplishments that would satisfy MANDATORY TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (MTQ) 2: Advanced Auditing and Financial Oversight of Grants and Financial Statements - Demonstrate expertise in accounting, auditing, and financial analysis, including leading complex audits of grants and nonprofit organizations and coordinating the annual financial statement audit as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative to ensure compliance with applicable federal laws, rules, and regulations.
 Yes, my resume does demonstrate accomplishments that would satisfy this technical qualifications.
 No, I am not qualified for this position.


3.
New entrants into the Senior Executive Service (SES) under a career appointment will be assessed for executive competency against the following five mandatory ECQs. If your 2-page resume does not reflect demonstrated evidence of the ECQs, you may not receive further consideration for the position.
ECQ 1: Commitment to the Rule of Law and the Principles of the American Founding - This core qualification requires a demonstrated knowledge of the American system of government, commitment to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law, and commitment to serve the American people.
ECQ 2: Driving Efficiency - This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to strategically and efficiently manage resources, budget effectively, cut wasteful spending, and pursue efficiency through process and technological upgrades.
ECQ 3: Merit and Competence - This core qualification involves demonstrated knowledge, ability and technical competence to effectively and reliably produce work that is of exceptional quality.
ECQ 4: Leading People - This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to lead and inspire a group toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, and to drive a high-performance, high-accountability culture. This includes, when necessary, the ability to lead people through change and to hold individuals accountable.
ECQ 5: Achieving Results - This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to achieve both individual and organizational results, and to align results to stated goals from superiors.
 Yes, my resume does demonstrate accomplishments that would all five of the Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ's)
 No, I am not qualified for this position.
 If you are a member of the SES or have been certified through successful participation in an OPM approved SES Candidate Development Program (SESCDP), or have SES reinstatement eligibility, you do not need to address the ECQs. Instead, you should attach proof [e.g., SF-50, Certification by OPM's SES Qualifications Review Board (QRB)] of your eligibility for noncompetitive appointment to the SES.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙