Position Title
SUPERVISORY INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
PDS-26-JAB-12932149 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 14, 2026 to Apr 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Please indicate the OIT location(s) you are interested in working at. If you choose a location outside of your local commuting area, you will be responsible for relocation expenses.
 A. Albany, NY
 B. Anaheim, CA
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Aurora, CO
 E. Austin, TX
 F. Cleveland, OH
 G. Davidson, TN
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Detroit, MI
 J. Eatontown, NJ
 K. Hines, IL
 L. Houston, TX
 M. Long Beach, CA
 N. Los Angeles, CA
 O. Murfreesboro, TN
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Orlando, FL
 R. Philadelphia, PA
 S. Pittsburgh, PA
 T. Saint Petersburg, FL
 U. Salt Lake City, UT
 V. San Antonio, TX
 W. Tampa, FL
 X. Washington, DC
 Y. Shepherdstown, WV


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-In-Grade: This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. For the GS-15 grade level, you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade, GS-14. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet. (Please review all options before selecting a response)


1.
Select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-14 grade level.
 The time-in-grade requirement does not apply to me (e.g. I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks).
 I am a current federal employee, but I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement as specified above.


2.
Are you currently or have previously held a permanent Career or Career Conditional position in the Federal Government in the Competitive Service equivalent to the full performance level of the grade of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

- career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
- status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).

 Yes
 No


Selective Placement Factor: This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability, or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent the minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration. Evidence of the Selective Placement Factor must be reflected in your resume.


3.
Do you have Supervisory Program Management experience and at least one certification in Project Management Institute's (PMI), Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), Federal Acquisition Certification-Program/Project Management (FACP/PM), OR Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Project Management Certification?
 Yes
 No


Basic Individual Occupational Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Supervisory IT Program Manager, GS-2210-15.

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled:

- Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
- Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
- Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
- Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


4.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as: Project management disciplines such as requirements, analysis, project planning, budgeting, cost analysis, acquisition, configuration management, data management, information systems, network security and IT architecture.


5.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS- 14 in Federal service.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Assessment 2
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Which of the following leadership functions have you performed in your previous roles? (Select all that apply)
 A. Set goals, milestones, and expectations
 B. Developed, defended, updated, and executed program/project budgets
 C. Planned work assignments to be assigned to project/team members
 D. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness. Followed up with project/team members to assure milestones are met
 E. None of the above


2.
What level of experience do you have with IT program management and leadership?
 Extensive experience (10+ years)
 Moderate experience (5–10 years)
 Some experience (2-5 years)
 Minimal experience (less than 2 years)
 No experience


3.
Do you have experience with performance management and appraisals for a team?
 Extensive experience
 Moderate experience
 Minimal experience
 No experience


4.
How much experience do you have managing a multi-product IT portfolio (10+ products)?
 Extensive experience with 10+ products
 Moderate experience with 5–9 products
 Limited experience with 1–4 products
 No experience


5.
Have you developed and overseen product roadmaps for multiple interdependent products?
 Yes, for a large multi-product portfolio
 Yes, for several products
 Yes, for a single product
 None of the above


6.
Have you managed multiple supervisors or team leads?
 Yes, more than two team leads
 Yes, one or two team leads
 Supervised staff but not supervisors
 No supervisory experience


7.
Which workforce management activities have you performed for large teams (15+ staff)? (Select all that apply)
 A. Annual workforce planning
 B. Workload balancing across project teams
 C. Hiring, onboarding, and coaching
 D. Managing performance issues or disputes
 E. None of the above


8.
Have you managed trade-off decisions involving cost, staffing, and product priorities?
 Yes, regularly
 Yes, occasionally
 Only in a supporting role
 None of the above


9.
To what degree have you aligned product objectives with organizational strategic goals?
 Led alignment for multiple products/portfolio
 Led alignment for one product
 Participated in alignment efforts
 No experience


10.
What experience do you have coordinating across multiple internal/external partners?
 Extensive cross-functional, vendor, and leadership coordination
 Moderate coordination experience
 Limited coordination
 No experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙