Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Social Science Analyst / Statistician / Psychologist)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADPAC-26-13057440-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0180 - Psychology
 C. 1530 - Statistics


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
This is a screen out question. From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of experience that you fully possess to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Expert knowledge of designing, collecting, and overseeing multiple complex large-scale probability-based sample surveys. Expertise in military personnel topics (e.g., readiness, organizational climate, sexual assault, retention, military spouse employment) is preferred. Expert experience in applying and presenting (orally and in writing) social science methodologies, theories, and analytic techniques (such as statistics, psychology, and social sciences) to synthesize complex analytical findings for senior leadership. This position requires graduate-level statistical training, including 9 semester hours in statistics at the graduate level. Expert knowledge of advanced social/statistical methods, techniques, and practices; and expert knowledge of analytic techniques (descriptive, inferential, univariate, regression, and other multivariate) commonly used in behavioral science research to analyze data from large-scale, probability-based sample surveys to determine attitudes and opinions. Proficiency in budget formulation, execution, and contract management, including tracking multi-million-dollar portfolios, justifying budget requirements, and serving as a Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) supporting the Contracting Officer's Representative (COR). COR training is preferred.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
Please select the response that most closely represents your Education for the position of Supervisory Interdisciplinary Social Science Analyst, GS-0101, Psychologist, GS-0180, Statistician, GS-1530-14 .  All education must have been received from an accredited college or university. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 To qualify under the Social Science Analyst (0101) Series: I possess an undergraduate or graduate degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 To qualify under the Social Science Analyst (0101) Series: I possess a combination of education and experience that provided the knowledge of one or more behavioral or social sciences to a major in the field.
 To qualify under the Social Science Analyst (0101) Series: I possess four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated the acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 To qualify under the Psychology (0180) Series: I possess an undergraduate or graduate degree major or equivalent in psychology for all specializations except clinical psychology and counseling psychology.
 To qualify under the Statistics (1530) Series: I possess an undergraduate or graduate degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.
 To qualify under the Statistics (1530) Series: I possess a combination of education and experience -- courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.
 I do not have the required education for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙