Position Title
MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
13025926 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Do you have a current valid state driver's license? (If selected for an interview, you will be required to furnish proof of possession of a valid state driver's license at time of interview.)
 Yes, I do possess and can maintain a valid driver's license. I understand that I must provide proof of my valid state driver's license, if selected for an interview.
 No, I do not possess a valid driver's license. Therefore, I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.


2.
This position is subject to an irregular tour of duty, which may include evenings, weekends and holidays.
 No, I cannot meet the requirements listed above. Therefore, I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.
 Yes I can meet the requirements listed above.


3.
Do you have documented knowledge of safety and environmental rules and regulations concerning procedures, tools, mechanical and electrified equipment, commonly used chemicals and basic safe work practices ? (This must be explained in your resume)
 I have 2 + years documented knowledge of safety and environmental rules and regulations concerning procedures, tools, mechanical and electrified equipment, commonly used chemicals and basic safe work practices
 I do not have any documented knowledge of safety and environmental rules and regulations concerning procedures, tools, mechanical and electrified equipment, commonly used chemicals and basic safe work practices is required.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge of safety and environmental rules and regulations concerning procedures, tools, mechanical and electrified equipment, commonly used chemicals and basic safe work practices


4.
Which describes your level of documented experience?
 More than 2 years documented experience with demonstrated skill in two of the following: Carpentry, Plumbing, HVAC, Electrical, Painting
 2 years documented experience with demonstrated skill in two of the following: Carpentry, Plumbing, HVAC, Electrical, Painting
 1 year documented experience with demonstrated skill in two of the following: Carpentry, Plumbing, HVAC, Electrical, Painting
 No documented experience in any of the following skills: Carpentry, Plumbing, HVAC, Electrical, Painting, but the ability to learn


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙