Position Title
Interdisciplinary Project Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13037754-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0020 - Community Planning
 B. 0110 - Economist
 C. 0193 - Archeology
 D. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 E. 0801 - General Engineering
 F. 0807 - Landscape Architecture
 G. 0808 - Architecture
 H. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 I. 0819 - Environmental Engineering
 J. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 K. 0850 - Electrical Engineering
 L. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 M. 0896 - Industrial Engineering
 N. 1301 - General Physical Science


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary Project Manager position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
Basic Requirement for Engineering Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary Engineer (0801, 0850, 0830, 0810, 0819, 0855, 0896) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of registration as an Engineer Intern (EI) or Engineer in Training (EIT) or copy of your Professional Engineer (PE) license.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts, AND proof of passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or other written test required for professional registration.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Basic Requirement for Community Planning 0200 Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary Community Planner at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in community planning; or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a field related to community planning such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration and possess at least one-year of work experience in community planning acquired under the supervision and guidance of a community planner. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in one of the disciplines, as shown in A above, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the disciplines, as shown in A above, of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Basic Requirement for Biologist 0401 Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary Biologist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


4.
Basic Requirement for Economist 0110 Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary Economist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in economics that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


5.
Basic Requirement for Architecture 0808 Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of  an Interdisciplinary Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect?s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Basic Requirement for Landscape Architecture 0807 series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary Landscape Architect at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in landscape architecture or landscape design. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that included one year of experience for each year short of graduation. My experience has been under professional leadership and guidance of such character and diversity as to be a satisfactory substitute for the required education and included original landscape design. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


7.
Basic Requirement for Physical Science 1301 Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary Physical Scientist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics which included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to one of the majors, as shown in A above, that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


8.
Basic Requirement for Archeology 0193 Series: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Interdisciplinary  Archeologist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) that included 3 semester hours each in the following course areas: (1) history of archeology; (2) archeology of a major geographical area such as North America or Africa; (3) regional archeology, archeological cultures, or sites in a specific part or portion of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development; (4) theory and methods of archeology which include, but are not limited to, typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, and analytical techniques; (5) archeological field school, to provide a basic understanding of theoretical and practical approaches to research design implementation, field preservation techniques, and report preparation by participation in actual field work; AND six semester hours of related course work in: (1) geography, geology, or cultural geography; (2) history, historiography, or historical archeology; (3) environmental studies; (4) scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); and/or (5) surveying; AND archeological field school. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline which satisfies in full the educational requirements, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements as shown in A above (including archeological field school). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education or training that provided knowledge equivalent to that described in A above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have four years of archeological work experience that demonstrates a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. The work experience must have included archeology field experience, which may include that gained in an archeological field school. Field experience should have included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher grade archeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief, directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archeological project.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


9.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary Project Manager at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Establishing project scopes and criteria; 2) Assisting with project schedules and budgets for multiple civil works or construction projects; AND 3) Formulating solutions to complex issues during all phases of project planning and execution.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


10.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary Project Manager at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Establishing project scopes and criteria for multiple civil works or construction projects; 2) Managing project schedules and budgets for multiple civil works and construction projects; AND 3) Formulating solutions to complex issues during all phases of project planning and execution.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


11.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙