Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic PACS Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13042363-26-TW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (PACS) position located at the Louisville VA Medical Center. Human Resources will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


In accordance with Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) Bulletin, Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages dated September 25, 2025; Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists, 0647 (all specializations are included) are not subject to Veterans Preference. This will continue until September 30, 2026. Veterans Preference will not be collected for this public announcement.


FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable.] Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent [can operate independently] and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. [In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.]

Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs on December 13, 2019, and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


3.
Please provide the following information regarding your ARRT certification(s):
Area of Certifiation:
Certiticaion #:
Date Certification received:
Expiration Date:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Education. Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in
Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE).]

Do you posses the education requirements above?

 Yes
 No


5.
Specialized Experience: Do you possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade GS-10 level directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies needed to provide services as a quality control technologist, ORT team leader, supervisory radiologic technologist,[PACS technologist, clinical program director], or an assistant chief radiologic technologist.

 Yes
 No


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge Skills and Abilities (KSAs): The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs:
A. Knowledge of contingency plans during equipment downtimes.
B. Ability to act as liaison for Radiology with biomedical engineering and Ol&T.
C. Ability to develop methods and programs to evaluate, monitor, and maintain digital imaging and voice recognition systems.
D. Ability to lead a team of multidisciplinary members in accomplishing strategic planning and integration of PACS and network elements.
E. Ability to perform complex system administrator functions such as: oversight of RIS (Hospital Information System/Radiology Information System) links, AE titles, individual and user group creation and access management, etc.
F. Knowledge of VA and other national guidelines pertaining to PACS network, VistA imaging, and database security.
G. Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures so he/she will be able to perform and reconcile image information correctly and efficiently during technical post processing and evaluation.

Do you have experience demonstrating possession of advanced practice skills and judgment as described in the paragraph above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must clearly demonstrate the required level and length of experience and KSAs to be creditable. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. While we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. It is recommend your resume include the following information for each position listed: Job title and place of employment Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Include series and grade level for any instances of Federal employment


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Your resume MUST have your License Number(s) and state(s) that issued the license. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer's Name (2.) Employer's City and State (3.) Job title (Federal/Military jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.
Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙