Position Title
Automotive Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12843039 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, December 5, 2025 to Thursday, December 18, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Work is often performed in tiring, awkward and uncomfortable positions to include frequent standing, bending, stooping and crawling. Work also requires lifting parts and materials weighing up to 40 pounds, and to occasionally lift items 50 pounds or more with assistance.  Are you willing and able to meet these physical requirements?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently possess or are you able to obtain a valid Driver's License?  License will be reviewed upon hire.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires adherence to prescribed safety procedures and may require using safety equipment such as safety shoes and glasses, and respirators.  Are you willing and able to perform work under with these conditions?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience performing Automotive Worker/Helper related duties. Response must be supported by resume in order to receive credit.
 I have more than two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have less than six (6) months of experience as described above.
 I do not have any experience as described above.


2.
How much experience do you have using standard and metric automotive hand and powered tools?
 I have more than two (2) years of experience with above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) years of experience with above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of experience with above.
 I have less than six (6) months of experience with above.
 I do not have any experience with above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 I have more than two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year of experience as described above
 I have less than six (6) months of experience as described above.
 I do not have any experience as described above.


4.
Do you have knowledge and/or experience with operating lifts and lift safety?  Documentation or resume must support response to receive credit.
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙