Position Title
MANAGEMENT AND PROGRAM ANALYST (COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12934275-AR-26-103-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board Title 5 Federal Employee within the Ohio Army National Guard (SF-50 required)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at the next lower GS-grade (or equivalent) which has equipped you with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


2.
Develops Special Military Projects and modifications to Cooperative Agreements, Grants, General Terms &Conditions (GT&C), FS Form 7600s, Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs), support agreements, and grant matters, and related operational and business procedures and processes. Analyzes, organizes a wide range of cooperative agreement management duties from pre-negotiation of cooperative agreement requirements and reimbursements, with applicable Directors/Program Managers, through inception to final approval, and administration through closeout.


2a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


3.
Advises others including Federal staff, and non-Federal recipients to accomplish the programgoals. Keeps supervisors and staff informed of administrative issues and developments. Respondsto questions and resolves problems for staff. Provides leadership and significantly contributes to ad-hoc or regular workgroups within the grants management community.


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙