Position Title
ALLIED TRADES SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12942873-AR-26-078-T Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to May 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Army National Guard?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E6 through CW3?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses the experience or training which demonstrates that you can organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience coordinating work with supporting or related work functions controlled by other supervisor; experience or training which demonstrates the ability to use all types of hand tools, and measuring equipment related to this occupational series; experience demonstrating the ability to set up and operate machining tools and using hand tools to make or repair parts, tools, gauges, models, patterns, mechanisms, and machines?

and 

In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you posses the experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel; experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines; experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function; experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes; experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Plans use of subordinate workers, equipment, facilities, and materials on a week-to-week or month-to-month basis. Establishes deadlines, priorities, and work sequences, and plans work assignments based on general work schedules, methods, and policies set by the supervisor. Coordinates work with supporting or related work functions controlled by other supervisors. Determines the number and types of workers needed to accomplish specific projects. Redirects individual workers and resources to accomplish unanticipated work. Informs the supervisor of the need to revise work schedules and re-estimate labor and other resources.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙