Position Title
Data Scientist
Agency
ARMY TRANSPORTATION
Announcement Number
MCGT-26-13018216-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of [insert percentage]% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to [insert percentage]% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Data Scientist position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Data Scientist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Data Scientist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service which includes (1) Applying advanced data analysis techniques to identify the methods, processes, algorithms, tools, and/or systems to interpret findings to help optimize programs.; (2) Analyzing and developing solutions using data-driven tools; (3) Understanding complex datasets and drawing meaningful conclusions. And (4) Communicating complex technical information to both technical and non-technical audiences.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙