Position Title
Senior Advisor Not To Exceed 1 Year, May Be Extended, May Be Made Permanent
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12954406C-APN-0301-15 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AL1213) 417 20th St N, Birmingham, AL
 AB. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AR. (AZ0058) 300 W Congress, Tucson, AZ
 AS. (CA7803) 700 P St, Fresno, CA
 AT. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AU. (CA0273) 501 W Ocean Blvd, Long Beach, CA
 AV. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AW. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AX. (CA8050) 290 North D St, San Bernardino, CA
 AY. (CA6109) 701 B St, San Diego, CA
 AZ. (CA8207) 100 First St, San Francisco, CA
 BA. (CA6116) 55 S Market St, San Jose, CA
 BB. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 BC. (CT3323) 333 E River Dr, Hartford, CT
 BD. (CT0061) 150 Court St, New Haven, CT
 BE. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 BF. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 BG. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 BH. (FL2533) 1000 S Pine Island Rd, Plantation, FL
 BI. (FL2971) 2203 N Lois Ave, Tampa, FL
 BJ. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 BK. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 BL. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BM. (IN1641) One Michiana Sq, South Bend, IN
 BN. (IA0112) 210 Walnut St, Des Moines, IA
 BO. (KY3123) 7300 Turfway Rd, Florence, KY
 B. (KY0086) 600 Dr Martin L King, Louisville, KY
 C. (LA0034) 600 S Maestri Pl, New Orleans, LA
 D. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 E. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 F. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 G. (MA0153) 10 Causeway, Boston, MA
 H. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 I. (MI2210)3251 N Evergreen NE, Grand Rapids, MI
 J. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 K. (MS0083) 100 W Capitol, Jackson, MS
 L. (MO1840) 2345 Grand, Kansas City, MO
 M. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 N. (NE0051) 1616 Capitol Ave, Omaha, NE
 O. (NV7516) 110 N City Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV
 P. (NH6185) 75 Portsmouth Blvd, Portsmouth, NH
 Q. (NJ4555) 1 Newark Center, Newark, NJ
 R. (NM1464) 6200 Jefferson St NE, Albuquerque, NM
 S. (NY7340) 130 S Elmwood Ave, Buffalo, NY
 T. (NY0376)1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 U. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 V. (NY6412) 1600 Stewart Ave, Westbury, NY
 W. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 X. (NC2668) 4905 Koger Blvd, Greensboro, NC
 Y. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 Z. (OH0208) 200 N High St, Columbus, OH
 AA. (OK1356) 55 N Robinson, Oklahoma City, OK
 AC. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 AD. (PA0277) 600 Arch St, Philadelphia, PA
 AE. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 AF. (SC0068) 1835 Assembly Street, Columbia, SC
 AG. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AH. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 AI. (TX0227) 300 E Eighth St, Austin, TX
 AJ. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 AK. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AL. (TX2982) 8122 Datapoint Dr, San Antonio, TX
 AM. (UT1431)2484 S Washington Blvd, Ogden, UT
 AN. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AO. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AP. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AQ. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in The Independent Office of Appeals business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-15
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include:
Experience serving in a leadership capacity in the area of tax controversy on major programs, leading organization-wide projects and/or initiatives, making critical decisions that impact an organization or division, or supporting and representing top executive leadership.
Experience applying technical expertise to emerging or precedent-setting tax policy issues.
Experience analyzing complex matters of fact and law to evaluate litigating positions or develop approaches parties might consider in settling tax controversies.
Oral and written communication skills sufficient to develop, persuade and negotiate a wide range of technical and implementation issues.
Experience with quantitative and qualitative techniques to lead analyses of interdisciplinary issues.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service.

 Yes
 No


2.
Does your experience include serving in a leadership capacity in the area of tax controversy on major programs, leading organization-wide projects and/or initiatives, making critical decisions that impact an organization or division, or supporting and representing top executive leadership?

 Yes
 No


3.
Does your experience include applying technical expertise to emerging or precedent-setting tax policy issues?

 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience include analyzing complex matters of fact and law to evaluate litigating positions or develop approaches parties might consider in settling tax controversies?

 Yes
 No


5.
Does your experience include oral and written communication skills sufficient to develop, persuade and negotiate a wide range of technical and implementation issues?

 Yes
 No


6.
Does your experience include applying quantitative and qualitative techniques to lead analyses of interdisciplinary issues?

 Yes
 No


7.
Choose all of the following that describes your writing skills.
 A. Developed content that was used in proposing legislation, regulations, and/or other authoritative guidance with significant impact on program operations.
 B. Formulated new or revised policies, implementation guidance, and/or technical procedures.
 C. Authored internal and external communications used broadly to share new initiatives with broad scope and impact.
 D. Prepared/authored communications or narratives of a sensitive and/or confidential nature on behalf of my organization and/or top leadership.
 E. Authored reports, articles, briefings, and/or other documents that delivered the results of a major study, analysis, and/or significant facts relative to program oversight and/or impact.
 F. Consolidated multiple technical documents into a single report.
 G. None of the above.


8.
Which one of the following best describes your highest level of experience communicating verbally and maintaining professional relationships with stakeholders?
 Presenting information verbally, gathering facts, conducting analyses, and presenting to top leadership, executives and other key stakeholders to influence decisions.
 Communicating policies, program goals, work plans and procedural objectives verbally to managers and employees to build effective partnerships and share key information.
 Communicating policies, program goals and procedural objectives verbally within my work group.
 None of the above.


9.
Which best describes your experience in your current position?

 Providing leadership and assistance to team members while completing multiple, complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Providing assistance to team members while completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 None of the above.


10.
Please select one that best describes your experience communicating with internal and external audiences of stakeholders, customers, and user groups.

 Wrote and presented communications, briefings, and analysis documents on complex tax issues to top leadership, executives, and other key stakeholders.
 Wrote responses and presented findings to oversight, governance, and audit bodies.
 Wrote reports and/or proposals on complex tax issues.
 None of the above.


11.
Which best describes your level of knowledge?

 Extensive knowledge of the Internal Revenue Code and related laws, court decisions, regulations, and other published guidance and their impact on tax administration/tax controversies.
 Knowledge of the Internal Revenue Code and related laws, court decisions, regulations, and other published guidance and their impact on tax administration.
 Knowledge of the Internal Revenue Code.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience?
 Worked at the headquarters or corporate level with top leadership, executives, and other key stakeholders, providing expertise in formulating policies and developing procedures, and regulations to implement tax legislation.
 Operational experience in interpreting and applying written policy, procedures, and regulation to implement tax legislation.
 Served as a technical expert in drafting policy, procedures, and regulations to tax legislation.
 None of the above.


13.
Please select the description that best describes your expertise working tax controversy issues.

 Extensive tax controversy experience involving complex matters of fact and law, conducting research, performing analysis, and evaluating litigating positions to develop and recommend unique or novel settlement approaches.
 Experience working tax controversy issues involving matters of fact and law, conducting research, performing analysis, and evaluating litigating positions to develop and recommend settlement approaches.
 Experience conducting research on tax matters.
 None of the above.


14.
Do you have experience working at a headquarters or corporate level, providing expert tax analysis and advice to top leadership and other executives on legislative issues, litigation matters, complex tax issues, and tax administration priorities and policies?

 Yes
 No


15.
Which statement best describes your experience in providing customer service?
 Anticipate and identify customer needs based on the in-depth understanding of customer business processes and identify possible alternatives and solutions that result in organizational improvements.
 Anticipate customer needs based on an understanding of business processes and identify possible alternatives and solutions to resolve customer issues.
 Identify customer needs based on an understanding of business processes and identify possible alternatives and solutions to resolve customer issues.
 None of the above.


16.
Describe your highest-level experience interacting with executives, top leadership and other key stakeholders to define the overall goals and objectives necessary for program accomplishment.
 Extensive experience interacting with top leadership, executives and other key stakeholders to define the overall goals and objectives of a strategic agency wide project or program.
 Experience interacting with top leadership, executives and other key stakeholders to define the overall goals and objective of a program or project.
 Experience interacting with key stakeholders to define the overall goals and objectives of a program or project.
 None of the above.


17.
Which of the following best describes your experience managing projects and resources?
 Extensive experience managing mission critical projects and resources for executives, high level managers and stakeholders.
 Experience managing mission critical projects and related resources for managers and stakeholders.
 Experience managing a mission critical project.
 None of the above.


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙