Position Title
Victim Advocate Program Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12991075-SE-AJ-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kodiak, AK
 B. Alameda, CA
 C. Petaluma, CA
 D. Honolulu, HI
 E. Staten Island, NY
 F. Cleveland, OH


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Victim Advocate Program Specialist (VAPS), GS-0187-11 with the US Coast Guard. Your resume and the responses you provide to the assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select the response below that best describes your skill and ability to perform the work of Victim Advocate Program Specialist (VAPS), GS-0187-11. Please provide evidence of this skill and ability in your resume. Select only one response.


1.
GS-11 Choose one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for this position:

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Entering and reviewing data, preparing reports, and providing technical assistance.; 2) Interpreting and communicating program policies and requirements..; 3) Providing immediate emotional support,, conducting lethality/safety assessments, and handling emergency calls..; and 4) Assisting survivors apply for Crime Victims Compensation, filling Safe-at-Home/protection orders, and coordinating housing or counseling referrals.
 My experience does not match the choice above. Screen-out


2.
Choose the answer that best describes your education and experience.

 I have a degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position
 I have a combination of education and experience that has provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. Social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not meet the basic (VAPS) Victim Advocate Program Specialist requirements for this position.


3.
To meet the additional qualification requirements for GS-11, select the option that best describes your education and/or experience:

 Completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education in accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management, or a combination of these fields.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


4.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes
 No (screen out)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙