Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
328-26-MW-12981014-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Baltimore, MD
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. New York, NY
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Pittsburgh, PA
 G. Providence, RI
 H. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Support Services Specialist with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


Area of Consideration:
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the selected location(s) Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) CTAP eligible.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Support Services Specialist
 I am currently employed by the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) at the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office that I am applying for. This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 My status is not described in the options above.



Time in Grade Requirement:
Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.
Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent VBA appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information.  



2.

Time-In-Grade requirement for Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-07; From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your time-in-grade:

 I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-05 grade level or higher.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position and grade combination.


3.

Time-In-Grade requirement for Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-09; From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your time-in-grade:

 I have at least one year of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position and grade combination.


Specialized Experience:
The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


4.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for the position of Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-07 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience includes data gathering; applying knowledge of standardized processes and procedures to complete assignments, identify problems from collected data and select solutions from alternatives in guidelines and precedent cases.
 I have successfully completed one (1) full year of graduate level education that involves a major study in public administration, business, administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. (You must provide transcripts)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as stated in this announcement and graduate level education in an appropriate discipline that, when combined, equal 100% of the total. (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond 1 year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


5.

From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for the position of Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-09 position.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience includes experience assisting with the facility, equipment, and/or service operation design projects; assisting with analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various Administrative programs, functions and systems, giving oral and written presentations.
 I have successfully completed two (2) full years of graduate level education or a masters or equivalent degree that involves a major study in public administration, business, administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. (You must provide transcripts)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as stated in this announcement and graduate level education in an appropriate discipline that, when combined, equal 100% of the total. (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond 1 year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Verification Statement:
Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this application questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙