Position Title
INFORMATION SECURITY SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12838399-AF-25-355-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 2, 2025 to Thursday, January 1, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. 



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess 1 year of experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Serves as the Wing Information Protection Program Manager executing/enforcing all operational, functional, and mission assurance aspects of the program. Formulates wing program goals, plans, policy implementation guidelines, procedures, and work plans dealing with the development and operation of wing-wide information security programs and activities and provides technical and administrative direction to subordinate wing information security personnel. Interprets National Guard Bureau (NGB), Air National Guard (ANG), Air Force (AF), Department of Defense (DoD), and other federal regulations for information security processes as they apply and are implemented within the Wing. Demonstrates expert knowledge of the information security field that is necessary to provide effective guidance, training, and direction to subordinate squadron level organizations/activities/units. Establishes and maintains liaisons with senior personnel at wing, NGB, ANG, and MAJCOM. Prepares information security review reports and provides recommendations and advice. Analyzes and evaluates the classification downgrading, declassification, and destruction programs.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Makes information protection risk assessments and risk management/mitigation strategies/recommendations based on intelligence-derived threat issues that may require deviations from or synthesis of policies. Uses initiative and resourcefulness in researching and implementing new and improved security methods and procedures. Complexity of duties is amplified as useful precedents often do not exist, technological advancements constantly change parameters for problem solutions, and unknown events significantly change circumstances. Collects, assembles, analyzes, and assesses background, data and other intelligence information. Develops processes, methods and recommendations to defeat intelligence gathering or risk exposure of information and ultimately prevent the compromise, loss, unauthorized access/disclosure, destruction, distortion or non-accessibility of information, regardless of physical form or characteristics, over the life cycle of the information, including actions to regulate access to sensitive information, controlled unclassified information and classified information produced by, entrusted to or under the control of the United States Government.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙