Position Title
Assignment Editor (Spanish)
Agency
U.S. Agency for Global Media
Announcement Number
EX-13029424-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this U.S. Agency for Global Media job opportunity?
 USAGM Careers web page
 USAJOBS website
 Career Fair, Conference, or Conventions
 Vacancy Announcement Posting
 Friend/Relative
 Social Media
 Professional Organization
 Radio/TV
 School, College, Counselor
 Other


2.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. For purposes of this question, you may answer 'No' if you have not been employed in such positions within the previous five years. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have a minimum of one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility comparable to the GS-12 or comparable pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position ande includes ALL of the following:
• Assigns and coordinates news and feature material and content elements for radio, TV and the internet based on news events and developments.
• Produces balanced, accurate, comprehensive material, selects news stories, and conducts interviews with various types of organizations and/or leaders of Spanish and English-speaking countries.
• Journalism, reporting and/or editorial experience that demonstrates a knowledge of Cuba its history, economics, culture, socio-political development, and the full range of journalistic skills to select materials, tone, and style that will be most appealing to this audience.

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have fluency in both English and Spanish languages that enables you to speak, read, write, report, and translate in both languages. This language screen out factor MUST be listed in your resume to receive consideration.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you meet the eligibility for an Excepted Service appointment under Schedule B, 213.3228. This appointment authority requires that the selectee have extensive knowledge of Cuba, including its people, culture, history, politics, economics, and current events. This extensive knowledge MUST be clearly articulated in your resume to receive consideration.
 Yes
 No


4.
Which statement best describes your ability to produce, write, and edit TV and digital media?
 I have produced, written, and edited TV programing.
 I have produced, written, and edited digital media.
 I have produced written, and edited TV and digital media from preproduction to postproduction
 I have no experience in production


5.
What is your highest level of knowledge, skill, and experience with digital media platforms including websites, social media, and online syndication platforms and trends?
 Plan and manage this process and lead the production thoroughly to completion.
 Familiarity with and knowledge of digital media platforms including websites, and trends used by Cuba.
 Some knowledge of digital media platforms, such as social media, online platforms.
 None of the above.


6.
Which statement best describes your experience editing feature packages?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed independently and normally without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.


7.
Which statement best describes your knowledge of the Cuba area? Click all that apply.
 A. I have knowledge of the history of the target area.
 B. I have knowledge of the economics of the target area.
 C. I have knowledge of the culture of the target area.
 D. I have knowledge of the sociopolitical development of the target area.
 E. None of the above


8.
Do you have experience voicing all types of material for radio, internet, and television broadcasts, in Spanish and English?
 Yes
 No.


9.
Which best describes your experience keeping abreast of current developments in the Cuba area in order to plan and develop program materials that are relevant and consistent with media climate?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of my job. I have performed independently and normally without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or I am normally the person who is consulted by other worked to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience with interpersonal communication in an organizational setting (check all that apply)
 A. I have promoted and maintained good working relationships with key individuals or groups.
 B. I have initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization.
 C. I have explained technical or other complex information to a wide variety of individuals.
 D. I have persuaded others to take a particular course of action.
 E. I have persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints.
 F. I have expressed information to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information.
 G. I have dealt effectively with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 H. I have exchanged information and discuss issues and options available with program managers.
 I. I have communicated with employees to obtain their ideas, transmit management's views to them and to identify potential problems.
 J. I have participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 K. I have communicated with a variety of individuals to explain involved procedures.
 L. I have communicated organizational strategies, goals, objectives, or priorities on a regular basis.
 M. I have provided for the exchange of information, counsel, guidance and knowledge.
 N. None of the above


11.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


12.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



13.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



14.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



15.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙