Position Title
DEPUTY FINANCIAL MANAGER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-13058295-AR-26-104 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Guard Information
1.
Are you currently a member of the Indiana Army National Guard?
 Yes, I am a Soldier with the Indiana Army National Guard.
 No, I am not.


2.
Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of O2 through O4?
 Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.


3.
Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


4.
*PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 No, this does not apply to me.


5.
Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.


6.
Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


7.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


8.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


9.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


10.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


11.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately; 

Ability to plan, direct, and coordinate difficult and complex programs; 

Ability to develop, apply, and adjust financial plans and policies to attain agency objectives; 

Ability to select, develop, and supervise a subordinate staff; 

Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships, not only with subordinate staff, but with all levels of key management officials, the latter particularly requiring the exercise of tact, ingenuity, and resourcefulness; 

Ability to apply a high level of sound and independent judgment in the solution of financial problems and in the administration of a financial management program; 

A broad knowledge of agency operating programs; 

A broad knowledge of and ability to utilize principles, methods, techniques, and systems of financial management 

Skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material; 

Skill in training, mentoring, and problem solving; 

Ability to make oral and written presentations in a clear and concise manner; 

Ability to clearly enunciate English without impediment of speech that would interfere or prohibit effective communication; 

Ability to write English in reports and presentation formats; 

Ability to communicate clearly and effectively; 

 Yes
 No


2.
Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?

Must have 1-year equivalent specialized experience to at least the next lower grade level before being eligible for the next grade level. Must have fundamental working experiences with a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the financial management occupational series and grade. Have the knowledge, experience, or training maintaining statutory responsibility for proper obligation, accounting, disbursement, and administrative control of all federal funds allocated to a state or organization. Experience or training ensuring accurate accountability for federal funds and providing full disclosure of financial actions following statutory requirements, regulations, directives, procedures, national, and local policies. Knowledge, skill, and ability reviewing annual appropriation and authorization legislation, interpret higher management orders, guidelines, directives, and policies to assess impact on state or organization impacts. Ability to provide technical budgetary advice and assistance to agencies and/or components within Department of Defense (DoD).  Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 Yes
 No


Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.



For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


3.
Do you possess the ability to utilize principles, methods, techniques and systems of financial management?
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


4.
Do you possess the ability to provide advisory services through briefings, conferences, advisory committee meetings, etc, on a regular basis. Ability or skill to provide support and facilitate management decisions concerning financial considerations, such as the availability and appropriate use of federal funds?
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


5.
Do you possess the knowledge or ability to audit financial records for the organization?
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙