Position Title
Cook
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJT-26-13045371-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Cook position with the Department of Defense, Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Cook duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Cook duties. I am skilled at compiling orders for required ingredients and food items; preparing high quality foods to order in a professional manner; coordinating cooking that is performed at different work centers; testing and evaluating new food products and recipes; operating powered/mechanical kitchen equipment (e.g., choppers, slicers, shredder, grinders, and mixers); and portioning food according to nutritional standards. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Cook duties. I am skilled at coordinating cooking that is performed at different work centers; testing and evaluating new food products and recipes; operating powered/mechanical kitchen equipment (e.g., choppers, slicers, shredders, grinders, and mixers); and portioning food according to nutritional standards. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties as a Cook. I can coordinate with cooking performed at different work centers and operate powered/mechanical equipment (e.g., choppers, slicers, shredders, grinders, and mixers). I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Cook duties or I have received training on operating powered/mechanical kitchen equipment (e.g., choppers, slicers, shredder, grinders, and mixers).
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙