Position Title
Supervisory Quality Assurance Specialist
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POGU-27-13078385-IMP
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty? Supporting Documentation : You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No
2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? -OR- Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? -OR- Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy • your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center .
 Yes
 No
4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No
5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area. Supporting Documentation: You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil) , a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade. Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No
6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. NOTE : By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer. Supporting Documentation : If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible ?
 Yes
 No
7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location. NOTE 1 : Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station. Supporting Documentation: You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No
8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. NOTE : By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer. Supporting Documentation : If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement ?
 Yes
 No
9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No
10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you: served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR are entitled to veterans preference? If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources .
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful. Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
2.
Please provide your preferred DCMA approved location(s) you are interested in working ( DCMA Location List ), not all locations may be available. **This is not a remote work position.
3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?* NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO .
 Yes
 No
DCMA, H8479129, Supervisory Quality Assurance Specialist, NH-1910-3
.
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory position with Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NH-02 or GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Providing technical advice to implement contractor manufacturing, quality assurance processes, and systems that impact product quality. Implementing continuous improvement techniques on contractor performance to assure contractual compliance with all contractual requirements. Providing direction, maintaining ethical standards, and leading teams in executing complex contract management ands operational responsibilities in a high-accountability Department of War DoW) environment.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.
2.
How do you most effectively motivate a team facing competing priorities and high workload?
 Set clear priorities, explain mission impact, and provide support/resources.
 Escalate all issues to senior leadership.
 Allow the team to self-manage without direction.
 Tell the team to push through without additional guidance.
3.
Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?
 By maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 By providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 By coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 By not communicating with appropriate executives and partners to ensure policy and procedures are communicated (0)
 By assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts a criteria.
4.
Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial.
 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I do not adapt my communication style to the audience, nor do I maintain positive relationships with external stakeholders. I only communicate with internal stakeholders.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.
5.
How should a supervisor align team performance objectives with evolving agency priorities?
 Maintain prior goals to ensure stability.
 Adjust goals informally without documentation.
 Communicate revised priorities, update performance plans, and monitor progress.
 Wait for annual appraisal cycle.
6.
A team member repeatedly misses deadlines. What is the appropriate next step?
 Wait until formal discipline is required.
 Reassign all work permanently without addressing the cause.
 Ignore the issue and hope performance improves.
 Conduct a documented performance discussion with clear expectations.
7.
A project is behind schedule. What demonstrates accountability?
 Provide leadership an accurate status and recovery plan.
 Assign blame externally.
 Direct overtime without explanation.
 Delay reporting to leadership until impacts become unavoidable.
8.
How should supervisors ensure accountability for critical work?
 Assume experienced staff will self-manage without oversight.
 Rely primarily on verbal confirmation.
 Establish clear ownership, implement review processes and verify completion.
 Only review after problems occur.
9.
When managing limited resources across competing mission requirements, what is the most appropriate supervisory action?
 Distribute resources evenly regardless of priority.
 Prioritize based on mission risk and documented objectives.
 Defer decisions to higher headquarters.
 Address issues only when shortages occur.
10.
A major deliverable from your team was submitted late. Leadership asks what happened. What is the best response?
 Blame the team and state that the delay was outside your control.
 Acknowledge your role, describe immediate corrective steps, and provide context.
 Explain the factors that caused the delay and identify who was responsible.
 Take full ownership as the supervisor, present root-cause findings, outline corrective actions, and describe how you will prevent recurrence.
11.
Your team must adopt a new technology, but several employees lack the necessary skills. How do you proceed?
 Share online resources and hope they review them.
 Conduct a skills assessment, create a structured training plan, provide hands-on practice, track progress, and adjust support as needed.
 Provide hands-on practice opportunities and monitor progress.
 Expect them to learn it on their own time.
 Arrange training sessions and encourage participation.
12.
What is the most appropriate way to support the development, growth and fairness of individual team members and subordinates?
 Keep them in the same role to maintain stability.
 Limit additional responsibility.
 Use them only to train others.
 Provide equitable access to development opportunities based on documented performance, competencies, and organizational needs.
13.
What best promotes continuous development in the workforce?
 Focus only on immediate operational tasks.
 Leave development optional.
 Provide structured learning and time to apply new skills.
 Discourage experimentation.
14.
A recurring problem persists. What should the supervisor do?
 Continue applying short term foxes to keep operations moving.
 Escalate the issue or reassign ownership without analysis.
 Address only the immediate incident and move on.
 Conduct a structured root-cause analysis and implement preventive actions.
15.
You must make a decision with limited information. What is the best approach?
 Use the best available data, evaluate risks, and choose the safest viable option while remaining ready to adjust.
 Make a decision primarily based on past experience or intuition.
 Seek consensus and delay the decision until more certainty is available.
 Postpone the decision until all information is available.
16.
Your team struggles to solve issues independently and frequently escalates minor problems. What is the most effective problem-solving method that you should use?
 Build a problem-solving development program, provide coaching, create practice scenarios, reinforce critical thinking, and empower the team to resolve issues independently.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
 Handle all problems yourself to ensure they’re done correctly.
 Encourage the team to try harder before escalating.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
17.
Policy change creates operational ambiguity for your team. What is the most effective response?
 Continue current practice until directed otherwise.
 Seek clarification, assess operational impact, and provide interim guidance.
 Pause operations.
 Let each team member interpret independently
18.
After a major conflict is resolved, what actions help rebuild long term trust and team cohesion?
 Reinforce shared goals and team identity.
 Conduct follow up check ins to ensure issues remain resolved.
 Avoid discussing the conflict again to prevent reopening wounds.
 Recognize positive collaboration behaviors as they emerge.
19.
How should supervisors manage technical disagreements?
 Minimize communication to avoid friction.
 Encourage open discussion and define escalation paths.
 Avoid direct involvement unless the issue escalates.
 Let the loudest voice decide
20.
If two employees are upset because they believe workload assignments are unfair. What would your response be to these employes?
 Meet with both employees, discuss workload criteria, and adjust assignments transparently.
 Review workload data, involve employees in discussing expectations, adjust assignments, and implement a clear, equitable workload distribution process.
 Tell them, “That’s just how it is” and move on.
 Explain that you’ll try to balance things better next time.
21.
Two high-performing employees have ongoing interpersonal tension affecting productivity. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Separate assignments permanently.
 Address concerns individually and facilitate a mediated discussion.
 Ignore because performance is still acceptable.
 Issue a general reminder about professionalism.
22.
Government Contract Quality Assurance (GCQA) is best defined as:
 The contractor’s internal quality management activities used to control its production processes.
 The contracting officer’s process for negotiating consideration for nonconforming supplies.
 The functions, including inspection, performed by the Government to determine whether the contractor fulfilled contractual quality and quantity obligations.
 A receiving activity’s verification that a shipment contains the quantity listed on the shipping document.
23.
A Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) prepared in conjunction with a statement of work should identify:
 The contractor’s indirect cost rates and projected staffing levels.
 The Government’s projected travel requirements and funding source.
 All work requiring surveillance and the method of surveillance.
 The contractor’s proposed corrective-action response time for each potential defect.
24.
Which statement accurately describes Government quality assurance at the subcontract level?
 Government subcontract surveillance transfers the prime contractor’s quality responsibility to the Government.
 Government subcontract surveillance may be performed when required in the Government’s interest and does not relieve the prime contractor of its contractual responsibilities.
 A Government representative may establish a direct contractual relationship with a subcontractor to obtain corrective action.
 Subcontract surveillance is limited to items shipped directly to a Government receiving activity.
25.
A supplier has repeatedly tendered items with minor packaging and marking nonconformances. Each individual issue has been corrected before shipment, but the pattern has consumed substantial Government surveillance resources and delayed several deliveries. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Ensure the team documents the recurring trend and its impact, evaluates the adequacy of the contractor’s corrective action and process controls, uses appropriate contractual quality-assurance actions—including rejection or corrective-action escalation when warranted—and provides the contracting officer a fact-based recommendation regarding further contractual remedies.
 Counsel the supplier’s quality manager and request voluntary improvements, while maintaining the current surveillance approach.
 Stop documenting the minor issues individually and summarize them during the next periodic performance review.
 Directly impose a price reduction on the supplier for each repeated nonconformance.
26.
A DCMA quality team receives a new workload involving a supplier producing a complex assembly with several characteristics that are not fully verifiable through final inspection. Supplier performance data shows recurring defects in a critical fabrication process, although recent final deliveries have been accepted. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Direct the team to evaluate the contract requirements, critical characteristics, process history, and available quality data; establish or adjust risk-based surveillance focused on the fabrication process and objective evidence of control; document the surveillance rationale and reassess it as performance data changes.
 Increase final inspection sampling until the supplier demonstrates several acceptable deliveries, then consider whether process surveillance is needed.
 Ask the supplier to provide a summary of its internal audit results and continue the existing surveillance plan unless a product rejection occurs.
 Suspend Government surveillance because accepted end items indicate the fabrication process is adequately controlled.
27.
During an in-process review, a QAR observes electronic parts with inconsistent markings and traceability records that create reasonable doubt about authenticity. The parts are intended for a critical application, and the contractor plans to install them in an assembly scheduled for test. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Direct the team to preserve relevant objective evidence, prevent further use or commingling consistent with contract and agency procedures, document the condition, promptly coordinate with the contracting officer and appropriate technical/security stakeholders, and ensure contractor actions are evaluated against applicable contractual reporting and control requirements.
 Document the observation and advise the contractor to conduct an internal investigation before DCMA takes further action.
 Increase final inspection of the completed assembly because the concern may be resolved through functional testing.
 Accept the parts if the contractor states that the distributor is a longstanding supplier.
28.
A contractor has written authorization to release source-inspected supplies for shipment under DFARS 246.471 alternative procedures. During the last month, the contractor has experienced repeated documentation errors, two rejected shipments, and evidence that required pre-shipment verifications were not consistently completed. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Evaluate whether the conditions supporting the written authorization remain valid, document the evidence, coordinate with the responsible contract administration authority, and withdraw the authorization in writing if the required conditions no longer exist; establish appropriate follow-on surveillance.
 Increase review of shipping documents while allowing the contractor’s release authorization to remain in effect pending its next annual assessment.
 Issue informal verbal guidance and reassess after the contractor submits its next shipment.
 Continue the alternative procedure because prior written authorization remains effective through contract completion.
29.
Which condition provides a basis for performing Government contract quality assurance at source?
 The contractor requests Government inspection to support its internal quality audit.
 Government inspection at another location would require destructive testing or uneconomical disassembly.
 The product is commercially available and the contractor has a satisfactory performance record.
 The receiving activity prefers source inspection for administrative convenience.
30.
Under DFARS 246.402, Government contract quality assurance at source is generally not required for a contract or delivery order valued below $400,000 unless:
 The supplier has not previously performed a DoD contract.
 The contract contains a firm-fixed-price line item.
 A DoD regulation, memorandum of agreement, or contracting officer determination meeting the stated DFARS criteria supports source QA.
 The contractor offers a certificate of conformance with its shipment.
31.
Under DFARS 246.471, the contract administration office may authorize a contractor to release source-inspected supplies for shipment when, among other conditions:
 The contract is an FMS contract and the contractor has experienced no late deliveries.
 The contractor provides a certificate of conformance for each shipment.
 There is sufficient continuity of production for systematic evaluation of contractor quality control, and the contractor has a satisfactory quality record, including shipment preparation.
 The contractor agrees to conduct final inspection after delivery at destination.
32.
A DoD customer submits a Quality Assurance Letter of Instruction (QALI) requesting 100-percent inspection of a supplier's commercial product line. The request does not identify critical characteristics, known defects, or a specific contractual basis for the requested level of inspection. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Evaluate the QALI against the contract, risk information, requested surveillance scope, and available resources; acknowledge and coordinate with the customer and contracting office as appropriate; accept, reject, or accept with limitations in accordance with DCMA procedures; and document the resulting surveillance approach.
 Accept the QALI and conduct periodic sampling rather than 100-percent inspection, without further coordination, to conserve resources.
 Return the QALI to the customer and request that it submit the same request after the next delivery cycle.
 Implement 100-percent inspection immediately because customer requests supersede contract requirements.
33.
A contractor has written authorization to release source-inspected supplies for shipment under DFARS 246.471 alternative procedures. During the last month, the contractor has experienced repeated documentation errors, two rejected shipments, and evidence that required pre-shipment verifications were not consistently completed. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?
 Evaluate whether the conditions supporting the written authorization remain valid, document the evidence, coordinate with the responsible contract administration authority, and withdraw the authorization in writing if the required conditions no longer exist; establish appropriate follow-on surveillance.
 Increase review of shipping documents while allowing the contractor’s release authorization to remain in effect pending its next annual assessment.
 Issue informal verbal guidance and reassess after the contractor submits its next shipment.
 Continue the alternative procedure because prior written authorization remains effective through contract completion.
