Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12927049-26-JAD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Administrative Officer position with VA Loma Linda. Please provide an answer to each question. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. Fail to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating. We will not make assumptions regarding your experience.


1.
GS-09: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the Administrative Officer work at the GS-09 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-07) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities (KSA) such as: Evaluate the service line fiscal projections, workload, workflow, and substantive administrative functions; Knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies as well as credentialing and accreditation requirements; Work process, and administrative operations of organization to include clinical systems; Ability to analyze administrative or operational problems, and oral recommendations which affect the management of the service line; knowledge of budget and fiscal management considerations in order to make budget projections.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify for the GS-09 position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).
 I do not have the experience nor the education as described above.


2.
GS-11: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the Administrative Officer work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-09) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities (KSA) such as: Ability to productivity charting, workflow, job structuring, organizational design; Knowledge of contracts, agreements, and cooperative arrangements with other government agencies, universities, or private organizations; Policies and directives originating from VA headquarters, VISN and facility center memoranda; Use of computer equipment and software such as Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook, Access and VA databases to extract and organize data, produce letters, memorandums, and other documents, spreadsheets.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify for the GS-11. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).
 I do not have the experience nor the education as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙