Position Title
SOCIAL WORKER OR PSYCHOLOGIST - DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-0180-0185-03-13000843 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0180 - Psychology
 B. 0185 - Social Work


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a NH-0180 or NH-0185. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the basic requirement and specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Psychologist, NH-180-03 grade level. You must provide a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have satisfactorily completed 2 full academic years of graduate study directly related to professional work in psychology, or satisfactory completion in an accredited education institution of all the requirements for a master’s degree directly related to psychology AND I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband NH-02 or (GS-11) equivalent in other pay systems. Specialized experience includes professional knowledge of clinical counseling practices, principles, theories, and administrative requirements to apply them in a clinical or occupational setting and medical documentation; knowledge of a full range of psychiatric disorders and ability to provide treatment to patients. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 My education is not reflected in the above statement; however, I believe I can successfully perform the duties of this position.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the basic requirement and specialized experience you possess that meet the requirements necessary to perform the work of a Social Worker at the NH-185-03 grade level. You must provide a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a master's degree with a major in social work or I have fulfilled all of the requirements for the master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education, AND I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband NH-02 or (GS-11) equivalent in other pay systems. Specialized experience includes professional knowledge of clinical counseling practices, principles, theories, and administrative requirements to apply them in a clinical or occupational setting and medical documentation; knowledge of a full range of psychiatric disorders and ability to provide treatment to patients. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I do not have the education or experience described above; however, I believe I can successfully perform the duties of the position.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙