Position Title
Archivist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-1611-SPAR-26-12924659-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

1. Are you a graduate, who received a baccalaureate or graduate degree (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED) from an institution of higher education as defined in 20 U.S.C. 1001(a) within the last 2 years from date of application?

-OR-

2. Are you a graduate who has received a bachelor's or graduate degree and were unable to apply within two years of obtaining your degree due to a uniformed service obligation of at least 4 years?  

Note: Graduates who have received a bachelor's or graduate degree and were unable to apply within two years of obtaining your degree due to a uniformed service obligation of at least 4 years, may apply within two years of their release or discharge from uniformed service. 

For more information, see Code of Federal Regulations  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a service member, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 or other proof of service; documentation must show the duration and dates of service that precluded you from applying due to a military service obligation.



 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT for this position. You must meet the basic education requirement first. If you do not meet the basic education qualification, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. You must include transcripts.

 I have a bachelor's degree in archival science OR bachelor's degree with a major that includes 18 semester hours in archival science, history and/or political science or government, AND 12 semester hours in one or any combination of the following: archival science, history, American civilization, economics, political science, public administration, or government.
 I have a combination of education and experience at least 30 semester hours that included courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Evaluation of experience: Professional experience must have been in archival science, or in a directly related field of work such as history that involved the collection, appraisal, analysis, or synthesis of information having historical or archival values. The following are illustrative of kinds of experience that may be accepted as meeting the professional experience requirements: (1) experience as an archivist in Federal, state, religious institution, business, or other archives, or in manuscript depositories, and (2) experience of an archival nature that involved research in archival science, or in a directly related field such as history, government, economics, political science, international relations, or international law.
 I do not meet the above basic education qualification requirement.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the education and/or specialized experience requirements for the Archivist GS-1420-7 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level in the federal service. Specialized experience includes performing archivist duties for the management and preservation of archival and manuscript collections within park museum programs or similar operations, which involve the application of professional archival or museum standards to process and preserve records and collections.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience as described in A above, but I have completed 1 year of graduate level education. Education must be in a related major and/or classes as described above under basic requirement. Graduate level education must be directly related to the position being filled.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree and meet the criteria for Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) as evidenced by one of the three following methods: I am in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR I have a GPA 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum, or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in my major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR I am a member in one of the national scholastic honor societies. You must meet the education requirements as outlined under the basic education requirement.
 I do not have one year of specialized experience as described in A above, or the education in a directly related field as described in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. For example, I have six months of the specialized experience (50 percent of the experience requirement), and 9 semester hours of appropriate directly related graduate education (50 percent of the education requirement).
 I do not meet the requirements stated above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the education and/or specialized experience requirements for the Archivist GS-1420-9 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the federal service. Specialized experience includes performing archivist duties for the management and preservation of archival and manuscript collections within park museum programs or similar operations, which involve the application of professional archival or museum standards to process and preserve records and collections; Evaluating records, archival, and manuscript collections; Utilizing Federal Records Management guidelines; Managing museum and archival collections with standard professional procedures, including accessioning, cataloging, researching provenance; Performing basic preservation or conservation on collections, rehousing collections, monitoring environment in collection spaces, creating finding aids for collections.
 I do not have the one year of specialized experience as described in A above, but I have completed 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master?s degree or master's or equivalent degree. Education must be in a related major and/or classes as described above under basic requirement. Graduate level education must be directly related to the position being filled.
 I do not have one year of specialized experience as described in A above, or the education in a directly related field as described in B above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. For example, I have six months of the specialized experience (50 percent of the experience requirement), and 9 semester hours (only graduate education beyond the first 18 semester hours is qualifying) of appropriate directly related graduate education (50 percent of the education requirement).
 I do not meet the requirements stated above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙