Position Title
Executive Director Suicide Prevention
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFN-13025122-26-BA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0180 - Psychology
 B. 0602 - Medical Officer


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your education, license and current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Applicants must meet the below educational, residency and internship requirements in order to minimally qualify for the specific specialty you are applying for.
 Psychologist Basic Requirements: Doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS), or the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) at the time the program was completed. The specialty area of the degree must be consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. Internship: Have successfully completed a professional psychology internship training program that was accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed and that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. Professional Psychology Licensure: Hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a state, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or the District of Columbia Physician Basic requirements:
 Degree of Doctor of Medicine: Degree of Doctor of Medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine. The degree must have been obtained from an institution whose accreditation was in place for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are: (1) Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted, or (2) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted. (3) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (1) or (2) above, facility officials must verify with the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) that the applicant has met requirements for certification, and must obtain a copy of the ECFMG certificate, if claimed by the applicant. Residency Training: Physicians must have completed residency training or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification. Approved residencies include those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or American Osteopathic Association, or other residences which the Professional Standards Board determines to have provided appropriate professional training. Do you meet the requirements for the specialty you are applying for?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Applicants must meet the below licensure requirements to qualify. Do you meet the requirements for the specialty you are applying for?
Psychologist licensure requirement:
Professional Psychology Licensure: Hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a state, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or the District of Columbia
Physician licensure requirement:
Licensure: Physicians must possess a current, full and unrestricted license to practice medicine or surgery in a state, territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The physician must maintain current registration in the state of licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active, current licensure.

 Yes
 No


3.
DEMONSTRATED LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE:
Applicants must possess extensive leadership experience in the health care arena sufficient to qualify for the equivalent of a senior executive equivalent position within the Federal service. In addition, the incumbent is broadly acquainted with mastery level knowledge of suicide prevention methodologies, crisis intervention strategies, mental health literature and data, and existing policies and priorities in the VA relevant to suicide prevention.
In addition to basic requirements, the following technical and executive core qualifications are required for this position. Typically, these qualifications would be gained through education, experience and training which reflect progressive development and achievement in responsible management/executive level assignments in health care at a national or Network level, equivalent positions in a hospital/network/regional office or allied medical care facility, or executive positions in an academic institution. An individual's total experience and education must demonstrate the ability to perform the duties of the position. If you are currently a federal employee, this type of experience is typically found at positions at the GS-15 level and above.

To meet the minimum qualifications, applicants must possess all of the necessary requirements for this position, you MUST SHOW in your RESUME that you possess the five Mandatory Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) and Technical Qualification(s) outlined below. Eligibility will be based on clear and concise accomplishments that emphasize your level of responsibilities, scope and complexity of programs managed, program accomplishments (with results), policy initiatives and level of contacts.

EXECUTIVE CORE QUALIFICATIONS (ECQs):

(1) Commitment to the Rule of Law and the Principles of the American Founding: This core qualification requires a demonstrated knowledge of the American system of government, commitment to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law, and commitment to serve the American people.

(2) Driving Efficiency: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to strategically and efficiently manage resources, budget effectively, cut wasteful spending, and pursue efficiency through process and technological upgrades.

(3) Merit and Competence: This core qualification involves the demonstrated knowledge, ability and technical competence to effectively and reliably produce work that is of exceptional quality.

(4) Leading People: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to lead and inspire a group toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals, and to drive a high-performance, high-accountability culture. This includes, when necessary, the ability to lead people through change and to hold individuals accountable.

(5) Achieving Results: This core qualification involves the demonstrated ability to achieve both individual and organizational results, and to align results to stated goals from superiors.

TECHNICAL QUALIFICATION (TQ):


1) Knowledge of mission, organization programs and requirements of health care delivery systems, and the ability to manage and direct a health care program at a national level.
Do you possess the experience, technical and executive core qualifications listed above?

 Yes
 No


This section is used to certify the accuracy of your application package. Your answers to this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify the information you provide. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position agency.


REMINDER - you must provide a complete Application Package which includes Resume/CV reflecting that you possess The experiences, Technical (if applicable) and Executive Core Qualifications and Copy of license or license information included in resume if applicable (i.e. number, state and expiration date)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙