Position Title
Supervisory Management & Program Analyst
Agency
Government Accountability Office
Announcement Number
CAO-26-IMP-12993822 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently an employee of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO)?
You may need to submit documents to prove this claim. Please review the Required Documents section of the job announcement to find the documents you need to submit.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Management and Program Analyst, MS-343-II position with the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the statement that describes how you meet the specialized experience for the Supervisory Management and Program Analyst, MS-343-II position. Select one response.

 Yes, I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the next lower band level, equivalent to the Band MS-I / PT-III / PE-IIB level or GS-14 level in the federal service, which has equipped me with the skills and knowledge to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as experience in preparing briefs for senior management on program execution, collaborating on assessments over organizational internal; and communicating effectively both orally and in writing, to convey organizational technical, sensitive concepts and issues to senior officials and leaders.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience listed above.


2.
Please select the response that best reflects your experience partnering with leadership to develop and communicate organizational objectives, including crafting internal messaging and strategies to achieve appropriate message delivery.

 I have no experience in performing this work, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predicable situations with minimum supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance carry out this work only in unusually complex situations.


3.
Please provide a brief description of your response to the question above. Limit your response to 1000 characters. Please do not indicate see resume.



4.
Please select the one answer that best describes your experience communicating effectively both orally and in writing, to convey technical, sensitive concepts and issues.

 I have no experience in performing this work, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predicable situations with minimum supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance carry out this work only in unusually complex situations.


5.
Please select the response that best reflects your experience working collaborating with stakeholders to develop and communicate strategies in support of internal programs and organizational priorities, such as notices, orders, or surveys.

 I have no experience in performing this work, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predicable situations with minimum supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance carry out this work only in unusually complex situations.


6.
Please select the one answer that best describes your experience directing an organizational unit with a focus on delivering high quality customer service and achieving results through an outcome based approach.

 I have no experience in performing this work, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work across routine or predicable situations with minimum supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work independently across a wide range of situations, I have assisted others in carrying out this work. I seek guidance carry out this work only in unusually complex situations.


7.
This position requires an understanding of GAO's organizational structure, mission, functions, and management processes that allow GAO to meet its mission and objectives. Please select the one answer that best describes your experience at the GAO.

 I have experience implementing and overseeing initiatives and programs that cut across GAO?s mission teams and operations functions.
 I have had some experienced involved in working with GAO?s mission team and operational offices.
 I have only worked in one area of GAO?s organization


8.
Please select the one answer that best describes your experience at the GAO providing quantitative and qualitative techniques for analyzing the effectiveness of administrative and technical programs having agency-wide impact.

 I have no experience in performing this work, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing quantitative and qualitative analysis work. I have had exposure to this work but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing quantitative and qualitative analysis work across routine or predicable project requirements with minimum supervision or guidance.
 I have performed quantitative and qualitative analysis work independently across a wide range of projects. I have assisted others in carrying out this work.


9.
This position requires the ability to direct an organizational unit with a focus on performing supervisory responsibilities, assigning work, and setting and adjusting priorities to improve productivity and quality of work is required. Please select the answer that best describes your experience.

 I have demonstrated experience managing an organizational unit, focusing on performing supervisory responsibilities, assigning work, and setting and adjusting priorities to improve productivity and quality of work.
 I have demonstrated experience as a team leader or supervisor in a professional work environment working collaboratively with managers and employees to improve productivity and quality of work
 I have limited experience directing an organizational unit with a focus on improving productivity and quality of work.
 I have no experience performing this task.


10.
Please select the one answer that best describes your experience developing and leading staff by providing relevant learning experience, creating and maintaining a productive and results oriented work environment, and leading by example.

 I have no experience in performing this work, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in developing staff to improve the performance of work and provide a learning experience.
 I have experience developing staff to improve the performance of work, program results and providing a learning experience.
 I have independently led and developed staff to improve the performance of work, enhance program results, and support staff professional development.


11.
Select the best answer to describe your experience building and maintaining mutual trust, respect, and collaboration among team members.

 I have successfully led initiatives/programs that transformed team dynamics and improved collaboration and morale.
 I have led efforts to build trust and foster collaboration within my team or unit.
 I have encouraged and participated in collaboration, mutual respect, and team building in my team or with others.
 I have not had experience building mutual trust or collaboration among team members or others.


12.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information in and attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that false or fraudulent information on or attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify my application is correct, complete and made in good faith.
 No, I do not agree and request to be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙