Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-038-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a current or former employee of a Base Facilities or Land Management agency?

For Land Management employees: You must meet all the following criteria to claim this eligibility. You must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act. 

You worked for a land management agency.
Your job was a term or temporary job in the competitive service.
You worked for a land management agency for more than 24 months - it doesn't have to be continuous, as long as there's no break of two or more years.
You received acceptable performance ratings throughout your term or temporary employment.
You did not leave your job due to misconduct or performance.

For Base Facilities Management employees: You must be on a time-limited (a term or temporary appointment) employee of a Defense Industrial Base Facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base, you must meet all of the following criteria to claim this eligibility. You will need to submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form. See Base Management on USAJOBS for more information.

You're a current or former employee of a Defense Industrial Base Facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base.
Your job is or was a time-limited appointment in the competitive service.
You were originally hired under open, competitive examination under Sub-chapter I of Chapter 33 of such title to the time-limited appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


5.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former Federal employee or a Veteran meeting the conditions below?
You may be eligible for non-competitive Merit Promotion consideration if you meet one of the following:
Disabled veteran receiving 30% or more disability compensation from the VA;   OR
Transfer or reinstatement eligible: current Federal or former employee with career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced;   OR
Individual eligible under other non-competitive appointment authorities such as: Veterans Recruitment Authority; Military spouses under E.O. 13473; Certain former overseas employees;  Present and former Peace Corps, Vista or Action volunteers; Former White House staff; Present and former Foreign Service officers and employees; Certain National Guard technicians; Schedule A; OPM Interchange Agreement and Other Miscellaneous Authorities.
To verify your eligibility: You will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation to verify your current or former Federal employment status; or your eligibility under VEOA if you are a Veteran.
Federal employment documentation will include your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form and potentially your last performance appraisal with rating.
For Veterans, you'll need to submit your Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214, Member # 4 copy) and your Application for 10-point Preference (SF-15) and a VA Letter, if you are a disabled 10-point Vet.
Those qualifying under a special authority will need to submit documentation to verify this eligibility, and this may differ from one authority to another. Please check the Announcement and the links contained above, or reach out to the HR Specialist, if you're unsure what to provide.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current Federal employee applying to transfer?
To apply under Merit Promotion as a Transfer or Reassignment, you must be a current Federal employee serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service, at the next lower grade (or higher) to the lowest grade being advertised for this announcement.  To verify your transfer eligibility you must submit your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action) which shows your appointment type, service, and the agency you were employed by.

To learn more, see the USAJOBS' Federal Employees page.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meet the qualifications for the Legal Administrative Specialist, GS-9. Your resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 Federal grade level (1) reviewing legal documents that initiate and conclude cases in litigation; and (2) working with complex databases, recording all required information into the database, and interpreting and reviewing the data to assure its accuracy and completeness.
 I have a masters or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or LL.B or J.D. Such education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist.
 I have a combination of experience as described in letter "A" above and graduate education as described in letter "B" above, which, when combined, are equivalent to 100% of the qualification requirements for this position at the GS-9 Federal grade level. (Only graduate education in excess of the first full year may be used in this calculation).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meet the qualifications for the Legal Administrative Specialist, GS-11. Your resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 Federal grade level (1) interpreting legal documents that initiate and conclude cases in litigation; and (2) working with complex databases, recording all required information into the database, interpreting and reviewing the data to assure its accuracy and completeness, and extracting the relevant data from the database in response to requests for information.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M. Such education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist.
 I have a combination of experience as described in letter "A" above and graduate education as described in letter "B" above, which, when combined, are equivalent to100% of the qualification requirements for this position at the GS-11 Federal grade level. (Only graduate education in excess of the second year may be used in this calculation).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


3.
State the position titles and the name of the organization/business from your resume that validates your response to the specialized experience question above.


4.
Select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance rating. (Federal employees will be required to submit a copy of their performance rating for their application.)

 Excellent
 Fully Successful
 Less than Fully Successful
 Fully Successful or Higher in a Pass/Fail System
 No Rating of Record
 Not Applicable.


5.
Have you received a performance award, special-act, or achievement award(s) that is directly related to the position to which you are applying?

 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙