Position Title
Student Trainee (Actuarial Science)
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-CLD-12988826-PS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently a student who has been accepted for enrollment or are enrolled at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate OR Enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a qualifying career or technical education program that awards a recognized postsecondary credential? 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status.  Note: you must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Are you an individual enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an institution of higher education and pursuing a baccalaureate or graduate degree on atleast a part-time basis as determined by the academic institution. (Transcripts and proof of enrollment must be provided).
 Yes, I am a student accepted for enrollment or currently enrolled and seeking a degree in a qualifying education institution, on a full or half-time basis.
 No, I am not a student accepted for enrollment or not currently enrolled and seeking a degree in a qualifying education institution,


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work required for this position at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-04 grade level or pay band in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing ALL of the following: Compiling data using spreadsheets, databases, or similar analytical tools; Reviewing reference materials, records, or supporting documentation for studies, reports, or projects; AND Preparing written summaries, reports, or documentation that communicate methods, findings, or results for review by others.
 I have four years of post-high school study obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university.
 I have a combination of the experience described in Response A and college education described in Response B above, which when combined are equivalent to 100% of the qualifications requirement.
 My education and/or experience are not described in any of the above response options.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work required for this position at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-05 grade level or payband in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing ALL of the following: Analyzing and interpreting quantitative data to support studies, evaluations, forecasts, or business decisions; Applying mathematical, statistical, financial, actuarial methods to develop calculations, projections, or recommendations; Evaluating information from multiple sources to support technical reports, analyses, or program decisions; AND Preparing analytical reports, summaries, or documentation that explain methodologies, findings, and recommendations to stakeholders or management.
 My education and/or experience are not described in any of the above response options.
 I have one full academic year of graduate-level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as, actuarial science, mathematics, business, finance, economics, or computer science or another related field.
 I have a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement as described in the announcement.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience, that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.


4.
What is your current declared academic Major?


5.
What is your anticipated completion date for your degree coursework?


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and; 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


6.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙