Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13051503B-RCN-0341-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CO1656) 600 17th Street, Denver, CO
 B. (FL0067) 400 West Bay Street, Jacksonville, FL
 C. (FL0061) 51 SW First Avenue, Miami, FL
 D. (FL2437) 1248 N University Dr, Plantation, FL
 E. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 F. (NV7516) 110 N City Parkway, Las Vegas, NV
 G. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 H. (PR4001) City View Plaza Ii, Guaynabo, PR
 I. (PR4070) 2050 Ponce Bypass, Ponce, PR
 J. (TN2709) 127 International Drive, Franklin, TN
 K. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-13:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12, in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Sufficient to accomplishment of administrative support services and operations assignments that required a range of knowledge of management principles and techniques and the ability to apply them. Experience includes the ability to use judgment to adapt and interpret appropriate guidelines and project management techniques sufficient to manage cross- functional work processes. This knowledge is generally demonstrated by assignments where you analyzed a number of alternative approaches in the process of advising management concerning major aspects of personnel, facilities /building management, time management, incident management and safety/security, program requirements. Additional examples of specialized experience include representing a team in cross functional labor relation issues including negotiations and acting as a subject matter expert to lower graded co-workers. You may also, on behalf of management, have heard grievances of a cross functional nature and will coordinate and lead local negotiations. In addition, experience communicating effectively, both orally and in writing, examples may include identifying and resolve complex problems, meeting and dealing tactfully and persuasively with others to resolve issues which are controversial/sensitive in nature.




This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a GS-0341-12/13/14. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-13:
Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience for the GS-13 level?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12, in the Federal service including: Sufficient to accomplishment of administrative support services and operations assignments that required a range of knowledge of management principles and techniques and the ability to apply them. Experience includes the ability to use judgment to adapt and interpret appropriate guidelines and project management techniques sufficient to manage cross- functional work processes. This knowledge is generally demonstrated by assignments where you analyzed a number of alternative approaches in the process of advising management concerning major aspects of personnel, facilities /building management, time management, incident management and safety/security, program requirements. Additional examples of specialized experience include representing a team in cross functional labor relation issues including negotiations and acting as a subject matter expert to lower graded co-workers. You may also, on behalf of management, have heard grievances of a cross functional nature and will coordinate and lead local negotiations. In addition, experience communicating effectively, both orally and in writing, examples may include identifying and resolve complex problems, meeting and dealing tactfully and persuasively with others to resolve issues which are controversial/sensitive in nature.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
Which of the following responsibilities have you performed with regard to budgets?
 A. Tracking funds
 B. Reconciling expenditures
 C. Initiating requisitions in PPS
 D. Cost comparisons for purchases
 E. None of the above


3.
Please indicate the highest level of experience you have creating and maintaining professional relationships with management.
 Maintaining ongoing relationships with all levels management to discuss initiatives.
 Facilitating meetings with key stakeholders to ensure project success.
 Communicating in person and by phone with all level stakeholders to accomplish project tasks.
 Preparing written communication (e.g., email, letter) to management.
 None of the above.


4.
Which of the following describes your experience in serving as a liaison with customers/stakeholders to ensure the implementation of cross-functional support activities and initiatives?
 A. Coordinated and facilitated cross-functional meeting(s).
 B. Led outreach sessions to educate and advise on programs and policies within my division and other divisions.
 C. Worked with FMSS to resolve space, building and security issues.
 D. Served as a task team leader overseeing organization-wide programs impacting multiple organizational units or departments with a specific focus affecting a nationwide program.
 E. Led discussions in which I influenced, motivated or persuaded persons or groups despite disagreement or conflict.
 F. None of the above.


5.
Which of the following verbal communication methods have you used to provide customer service?
 A. Authored and presented briefings to management
 B. Facilitated and participated verbally in meetings or conference calls that included agendas and meeting notes or minutes
 C. Interviewed customers/stakeholders to gather information (such as to clarify discrepancies, to negotiate and/or resolve issues, etc.)
 D. Represented your Business Unit at cross-organizational meetings or conference calls and provided action items to management
 E. Briefed your team on technical matters
 F. None of the above


6.
Which of the following describes your skill in providing advice and assistance to managers and employees in the resolution of issues and problems?
 A. I have formulated new or revised policies, implementation guidance, and/or technical procedures.
 B. I have developed content that was used in proposing authoritative guidance with impact on program operations.
 C. I have authored reports, articles, briefings, and/or other documents which delivered the results of a major study, analysis, and/or facts relative to program oversight and/or impact.
 D. I have prepared/authored (i.e., evaluations, congressional, etc.) communications or narratives of a sensitive and/or confidential nature on behalf of my organization and/or leadership.
 E. None of the above


7.
Which statement best describes your experience?
 I have participated in analytical reviews/studies related to key programs.
 I have participated and managed sections of projects that perform analytical reviews/studies involving my workgroup concerning projects related to key programs.
 I have performed and led sections of projects involving cross-functional analytical reviews/studies concerning projects relating to key programs. My recommendations have had impact in the improvement of business practices.
 None of the above.


8.
Which of the following describes your experience improving workload processes?
 A. Identified and made recommendations which were implemented to improve workload processing
 B. Recommended procedural changes designed to improve workload processing
 C. Implemented new work processes to improve workload processing and delivery
 D. Delivered oral presentation to leadership regarding recommendations to improve processing
 E. None of the above


9.
Which of the following best describes your experience managing projects and resources?
 I have experience managing projects and programs at the operational (head of office) level including a prescribed budget and managed mission critical projects for executives, high level managers and stakeholders.
 I have experience managing projects and programs at the operational (head of office) level and managed mission critical projects for managers and stakeholders.
 I have experience assisting projects and programs at the operational (head of office) level.
 None of the above.


10.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience implementing project plans?
 Led the development and implementation of project plans which contain activities necessary to complete the program/project, accounted for resource availability and fulfilled project objectives.
 Participated in the development of project plans and assisted with the management of resources to keep projects on schedule.
 Assisted in execution of project plans and schedules.
 None of the above.


11.
Which of the following statements best reflects your highest level of experience resolving issues in work-related settings?
 I have experience analyzing and resolving issues, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions to sensitive issues.
 I have experience resolving issues that required agreement on issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively.
 I have experience resolving issues that required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus.
 I have experience and/or training in resolving issues but have not yet applied this knowledge in a work environment.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following best describes your experience in preparing comprehensive reports regarding building/security/safety management/personnel matters?
 I do not prepare reports for management or stakeholders.
 I have assembled routine reports that were given to me and sent them to management or stakeholders.
 I have proofread routine reports prepared by others and made any necessary corrections before sending them to management or stakeholders.
 I have drafted routine reports and had others review them before sending them to management or stakeholders.
 I have frequently drafted and finalized reports and sent them to management or stakeholders.
 I have drafted non-routine reports and had others review them before sending them to management or stakeholders.
 I have frequently drafted and finalized non-routine reports and sent them to management or stakeholders.
 I have routinely drafted and finalized non-routine reports and sent them to management or stakeholders and used my expertise to review reports for others prior to submission.


13.
Which of the following describes your level of writing skills?
 A. I have formulated new or revised policies, implementation guidance, and/or technical procedures.
 B. I have authored internal or external communications used broadly to share new initiatives.
 C. I have authored reports, briefings, and/or other documents that delivered the results of a major study, analysis, and/or significant facts relative to program oversight and/or impact.
 D. I have prepared/authored communications or narratives of a sensitive nature on behalf of my organization and/or leadership (i.e., employee responses, evaluations, congressional, etc.).
 E. I have been involved in drafting a procurement solicitation for inviting companies to bid.
 F. None of the above.


14.
Which statement best describes your experience in providing customer service?
 I anticipate (forecast) and identify customer needs based on an in-depth understanding of customer business processes and identify possible alternatives and solutions that result in improved organizational capabilities, structures and processes.
 I anticipate customer needs based on an understanding of business processes and identify possible alternatives and solutions to resolve customer issues.
 I identify customer needs based on an understanding of business processes and identify possible alternatives and solutions to resolve customer issues.
 As a team member, I resolved individual customer issues.
 None of the above.


15.
Which of the following best describes your experience preparing budget projections or managing project funding?
 I have independently performed this task as a regular part of a job.
 I have performed this task with close supervision from a supervisor or senior advisor.
 I have not had any experience in performing this task.


16.
Which of the following describes your approach to develop relationships with co-workers and management?
 A. Developed work relationships as the project required
 B. Volunteered for extra project groups to develop additional relationships with members in my field
 C. Mentored others on my team
 D. Utilized a senior member of the team as a mentor
 E. None of the above


17.
Which of the following best describes your experience in representing management officials in contacts regarding cross-functional or building-wide administrative support matters and initiatives?
 A. Provide on-site administrative support for cross-functional matters and initiatives.
 B. Provide on-site administrative support for multiple cross-functional matters and initiatives.
 C. Provide administrative support for cross-functional matters and initiatives to on-site and geographically dispersed.
 D. Provide administrative support for multiple cross-functional matters and initiatives to on-site and geographically dispersed employees.
 E. None of the above.


18.
Which of the following best describes your communication experience on the job?
 Experience as a recognized liaison interacting with stakeholders and executives and gathering and analyzing data to formulate and define the overall program goals and objectives
 Communication to both internal (workgroup) and external (all others) customers
 Communication to external (all others) customers
 Communication to internal (workgroup) customers
 None of the above


19.
Which of the following describes your experience with providing feedback to others relating to cross-functional issues?
 A. As an On-the-Job instructor or mentor, I provided constructive feedback to trainees or mentees.
 B. I provided feedback or input on procedural matters for a peer.
 C. I provided feedback or input on technical matters for a peer.
 D. While serving as a manager or as an acting manager, I provided constructive feedback to employees.
 E. I provided input to management to enable evaluative feedback for a member of a work group.
 F. None of the above.


20.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I have experience establishing business unit needs and priorities and developing strategies to achieve multiple short-and long-term goals, including directing or monitoring work progress or determining and allocating resources.
 I have experience establishing business unit needs and priorities and developing strategies to achieve short-and long-term goals.
 I have experience establishing project requirements and priorities and developing strategies to achieve short-and long-term goals.
 None of the above


21.
Please select the response that BEST describes your experience managing multiple initiatives and/or a multiple faceted project or initiative?
 I have led or managed multiple projects or initiatives simultaneously that involved highly complex issues and/or decisions with broad impact on my organization or business.
 I have served in a leadership role whereby I have managed multiple teams or organizations that were successful in their delivery of new products, services, or initiatives, and/or their resolution of specific problems.
 I have performed as a project manager and have demonstrated the ability to set priorities, analyze issues, and make sound decisions relative to the delivery of new services and/or implementation of new programs/goals.
 I have a certification in project management but have little experience in leading or managing multiple projects or initiatives simultaneously.
 None of the above


22.
Select the choice that best describes your experience working in or leading work-related teams.
 I led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
 I served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 I participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 None of the above


23.
Which of the following statements describes your report writing experience?
 A. I have experience writing complex reports with detailed findings involving complex technical information which may include sensitive/privileged information and adapting the writing to the audience's level of knowledge.
 B. I have experience composing short documents or correspondence for an audience outside of my own immediate work group.
 C. I have experience writing complex reports and reviewing reports of others.
 D. I have experience composing documents or correspondence for the internal use of my business unit.
 E. None of the above


24.
Please select the response that best describes your experience reviewing written materials.
 I review the written materials to ensure all of it is included and look for any obvious grammatical errors.
 I read the written materials to ensure the materials are all included, grammatically correct, and research any discrepancies to ensure the materials are correct.
 I read the written materials to ensure the materials are all included; grammatically correct, logical and comprehensible; and recommend changes to management.
 I read the written materials to ensure the materials are all included; grammatically correct, logical and comprehensible; and make changes to improve the content and materials.
 I read the written materials to ensure the materials are all included, grammatically correct, logical and comprehensible, make changes to improve the content and materials, and serve as the first approval level for the implementation of the changes in course materials.
 I do not review written materials.
 I quickly review written materials to ensure all of it is included and look for any obvious errors.


25.
Which best describes your experience communicating with clients or internal contacts either verbally or in writing?
 A. Independently creating correspondence to a client or internal correspondence to an attorney or a manager
 B. Verbally communicating with outside clients or internally with attorneys or managers to discuss clarifications, corrections, or needed documents
 C. Documenting communication in automated systems (i.e., case and time management systems)
 D. Independently performing requested research and providing a written report of the results
 E. None of the above


26.
Which best describes your highest level of experience leading a team?
 Developing team member technical or analytical skills and providing leadership to team members while completing multiple, complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Providing leadership to team members while completing multiple, complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Providing assistance to team members while completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completing multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 None of the above.


27.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience?
 Provided advice on the impact of programs and policies within my own business unit and other business units.
 Interacted with executives and top-level managers across operating business units on issues impacting policies, programs and/or systems.
 Provided advice on programs and policies limited to my own function.
 None of the above.


28.
Select all statements that describe your experience with managing a program or project.
 A. I led the development and implementation of a formal project plan that accurately identified the purpose, scope, objectives, and activities necessary to successfully complete the program/project.
 B. I developed a schedule and identified resources necessary to properly manage and deliver project/program objectives.
 C. I participated in the development of a project plan and assisted with the management of project schedules.
 D. I identified resources necessary to deliver project/program objectives.
 E. I recognized the components and purpose of a project plan.
 F. None of the above


29.
Which of the following best describes your experience managing projects and resources?
 I have experience managing projects and programs at the business unit level including managed mission critical projects for high level managers and stakeholders.
 I have experience managing projects and programs at the business unit level and managed mission critical projects for managers and stakeholders.
 I have experience assisting projects and programs at the business unit level.
 None of the above.


30.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience prioritizing your workload to accomplish work goals?
 I prioritized tasks across multiple projects to meet competing deadlines.
 I prioritized tasks across multiple projects and unexpected issues to meet competing deadlines.
 I prioritized tasks across multiple projects and unexpected issues to meet competing deadlines, and I have assisted others in prioritizing their tasks.
 None of the above


31.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with briefings and providing guidance?
 Extensive experience briefing senior executives and providing guidance.
 Experience developing technical presentations for high-level officials.
 Extensive experience in making presentations on policy matters to management and customers.
 Limited experience communicating policy matters with other colleagues and employees.
 None of the above.


32.
Which of the following best describes your experience developing and implementing new or revised policies and procedures?
 I independently developed and implemented complex policies and/or procedures.
 I independently developed and implemented policies and/or procedures.
 I assisted in developing and implementing complex policies and/or procedures.
 I assisted in developing and implementing policies and/or procedures.
 None of the above.


33.
Which of the following responsibilities have you performed related to work reports (e.g., weekly reports, turnover reports, time allotment reports)?
 A. I wrote and submitted work status reports.
 B. I verified and accepted work status reports submitted by others.
 C. I monitored reports submitted by others to plan future work and/or provide documentation to management.
 D. None of the above.


34.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙