Position Title
Information Technology Program Manager
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CIO-26-13057232 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


FLETC Data Questions
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the Federal Government) so this is not applicable to me.


3.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal Government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


4.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


5.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


6.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


7.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please limit your résumé to 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. If more than 1 resume is uploaded, the one with the latest timestamp will be reviewed. Please ensure your resume does not have any photographs on it.
Please ensure your responses below are supported by information in your resume. 
When uploading documentation to your application, please ensure that if you have multiple documents of the same kind, that you combine them into one, and then upload/attach into the correct folder. (e.g. if you have multiple SF-50s, you would need to combine them into one PDF file and then upload under the SF-50 folder. 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current career or career-conditional employee of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers? You must provide an SF-50 that supports your answer.
 Yes
 No


2.
For all positions individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.Do you possess the following IT competencies required for the position:

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes, I possess all the competencies listed above.
 No, I do not possess all the competencies listed above.


3.
You qualify for the Information Technology Program Manager, GS-2210-14, if you possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal government, performing duties such as: 
Leading and managing complex, enterprise IT projects and programs, including developing and maintaining project plans, schedules, milestones, and risk management strategies, and aligning major IT investments with organizational strategic goals.
Managing full lifecycle IT acquisition and solution development activities, including requirements analysis, feasibility and trade-off studies, acquisition planning and budgeting, and developing concepts of operations and lifecycle cost estimates.
Ensuring IT systems complied with applicable federal laws, regulations, and policies, and integrated cybersecurity and configuration management considerations into programs and systems, in coordination with governance and security stakeholders.
Serving as a technical authority on complex, agency-wide IT initiatives, leading integrated project teams, providing expert advice to senior leadership, and delivering regular status reports and briefings that identify issues, recommend mitigations, and track performance.
 Yes, my resume matches the specialized experience.
 No, my resume does not match the specialized experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙