Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OT-DE(RG)-12982653-KEG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed (or will have completed as indicated in the job announcement) a qualifying Associates, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program or completed a qualifying career or technical education program (which may include Registered Apprenticeship Programs, Job Corps, AmeriCorps, and Peace Corps)? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate Resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your conferred transcripts (unofficial conferred transcripts are acceptable at this time; however, official copies will be required prior to entrance on duty). If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Boston, MA
 E. Detroit, MI
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. New York, NY
 H. Irving, TX
 I. Ashburn, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


4.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by CBP. Individuals are required to have physically resided in the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law) for at least three of the last five years, before completing an application for CBP employment.

If you do not meet the residency requirement as stated above and you have been physically located in a foreign location for more than two of the last five years, you may request an exception to determine if you are eligible for a residency wavier by meeting one or more of the following conditions:
Working for the U.S. Government as a federal civilian or as a member of the military
A dependent who was authorized to accompany a federal civilian or member of the military who was working for the U.S. government
Participation in a study abroad program sponsored by a U.S. affiliated college or university
Working as a contractor, intern, consultant or volunteer supporting the U.S. government

Exceptions may be granted to applicants if they can provide complete state-side coverage information required to make a suitability determination. Examples of state-side coverage information include: the state-side address of the company headquarters where the applicant's personnel file is located, the state-side address of the Professor in charge of the applicant's "Study Abroad" program, and/or the state-side addresses of anyone who worked or studied with the applicant while overseas. If selected for a position, you must provide documentation to support a request for an exception.

Do you meet the residency requirement?
 Yes, for at least 3 of the last 5 years I physically resided within the United States or its protectorates (as declared under international law).
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am a current CBP employee.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am therefore requesting an exception under one of the criteria listed above. I understand that if selected for this position, I will be required to provide supporting documentation for the period of time I have spent outside of the United States.
 No, I do not meet this requirement and am not requesting an exception. I understand that since I do not meet CBP’s residency requirement, I cannot be considered for a position with CBP at this time.


5.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


6.
Are you a current or former Federal employee? If yes, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your SF-50(s) (Notification of Personnel Action) to support your experience. Also, ensure that your resume contains a detailed description of your federal work experience, including the dates you performed those duties, your hours worked per week, job title, as well as series, grade level(s), and salary (if applicable).
 Yes
 No


7.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-07 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level performing duties such as: Assisting management or senior staff with coordinating program or administrative activities (such as monitoring workflow, tracking deadlines, and organizing documentation) in support of organizational policies or programs; supporting program operations by reviewing incoming submissions (e.g., forms, reports, or requests) for completeness and compliance with established instructions and routing them through the appropriate approval process; collecting, entering, and organizing quantitative and qualitative data in spreadsheets or databases, and producing basic reports, tables, or charts used by management to monitor progress toward program goals and identify trends; using standard office and business intelligence tools (such as spreadsheets, databases, or dashboards) to maintain program information, monitor status indicators, and verify the accuracy of data before it is shared with management or stakeholders; drafting or contributing to routine written products—such as status reports, summaries, briefing materials, or presentation slides—that clearly describe program activities, identify issues or trends, and communicate findings to supervisors, coworkers, or internal partners.
 I have successfully completed one year (or more) of full-time graduate education or a Master's (or higher) degree from an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim (Transcript(s) required).
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience as described in A and B above, the total of which equals 100%. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim (Transcript(s) required).
 I have successfully completed all of the requirements for a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university and claim eligibility for superior academic achievement based on one of the following: (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (1) Class standing - Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, based on completed courses. (2) Applicants must have a Grade-point average (G.P.A.) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. (3) Membership in a national scholastic honor society. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim (Conferred Bachelor’s Transcript(S) required OR National Honor Society Membership required).
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


8.
This question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.

Which of the following best describes your experience and/or education to qualify for the GS-09 grade level?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level, that includes assisting with coordination of mission or administrative programs (such as enforcement, compliance, or trade-related programs) by monitoring program processes, tracking milestones, and supporting the development or review of policy documents, procedures, or analysis reports; applying basic qualitative and quantitative methods (e.g., compiling data, performing trend or workload analysis, completing simple forecasts, or measuring performance against targets) to evaluate program operations and prepare written analytical summaries or recommendations for management; collecting, validating, and maintaining program data in spreadsheets, databases, or dashboards; generating recurring or ad hoc reports (such as status updates, workload reports, or performance metrics) used by management to assess progress toward program goals; reviewing submissions (e.g., internal requests, forms, reports, or other program documents) for completeness and compliance with established regulations, policies, or guidelines, and recommending or coordinating corrective actions to ensure conformance; drafting or contributing to briefings, status reports, and presentations for internal and external stakeholders, and participating in meetings or workgroups to explain findings, answer questions, and support collaboration across offices or with external partners.
 I have successfully completed a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree; 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; a J.D. or an LL.B. degree from an accredited college or university may substitute for experience required at this level. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim (Transcript(s) Required).
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience as described in A and B above, the total of which equals 100%. I understand that I am required to submit proof of my educational claim (Transcript(s) Required).
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education described above.


9.
In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires a USA Hire online assessment, which measures critical general competencies required to perform the job. If you are required to take the USA Hire assessment, you will be emailed a unique URL to access the USA Hire system. The USA Hire online assessment must be completed within 48 hours, following the close of this announcement. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation for the assessment should you have a disability covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). See the How to Apply and Next Steps within the Job Opportunity Announcement for additional details.

Do you acknowledge that you may be required to take an additional online USA Hire assessment, via an email link sent to you after completion of this application, and that failure to complete any portion of the assessment will remove your application from consideration?
 Yes
 No, I understand that by not taking the additional required USA Hire assessment that I will be removed from further consideration.


10.
Are you receiving a civilian retirement annuity from OPM based on retiring from the Federal government? If you select yes and you are selected for this position, your salary will be off-set by the amount of your civilian retirement annuity.

To verify, you must submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 with your application package. It is also recommended to submit a copy of your most recent annuity statement.

Note, this does not apply to military retirement and annuity pay.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙