Position Title
Director, Division of Reactor Projects
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
ST-12998465-26-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Transfer Eligible

Are you a current Federal civilian employee in a permanent competitive service position
-and-
have completed an initial appointment probation or trial period?

To verify eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee, you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following:
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).
Note: NRC employees should select 'No' for this question as excepted service employees.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interchange Agreement Eligible

Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

-AND/OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
Veteran Health Administration Employee
Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) Employee
Tennessee Valley Authority Employee
Federal Aviation Administration Employee
Transportation Security Administration Employee
Americorps Employee
For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems: Types of Appointments

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

Note: NRC employees will be considered under a different authority and should answer 'no' to this question.
 Yes
 No


4.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reinstatement Eligible

Are you a former Federal Employee who previously held a permanent position and is eligible for reinstatement?

To verify eligibility, you must submit your qualifying SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade; salary; and full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


3.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts with your application.

 I have a physical science degree, engineering degree, or mathematics degree that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I have an engineering degree from a program that (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience from college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position, ES-0801/1301-00, grade level or equivalent pay band. I have a minimum of one of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement or equivalent to include: broad knowledge and understanding of scientific and engineering disciplines sufficient to assess significant reactor safety and security issues and vulnerabilities associated with the design, licensing, construction and operation of nuclear reactor facilities
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙