Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12981110 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How many years of experience in administrative functions do you have, to include: excellent typing skills, ability to use a personal computer with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, database, and presentation software--Microsoft Word, Excel, Access and PowerPoint? Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 5 years or more documented experience
 3 to 5 years documented experience
 2 to 3 years documented experience
 Less than 2 years documented experience


2.
How many years experience do you have executing purchases to include completing purchase requests, statements of work, cash disbursement memorandum and sole source justifications. Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 3 to 5 years experience
 2 to 3 years experience
 1 to 2 years experience
 Less than a year of experience


3.
How many years of experience do you have in using Excel spreadsheets to formulate cells and populate data in order to track annual contracts and invoice expenses as an organizational means? Must be documented on your resume to get credit.
 3 or more years of experience
 2 to 3 years of experience
 1 to 2 years of experience
 Less than a year of experience


4.
How many years of experience in establishing systems for organizing correspondence, budget information, purchasing documents, plant property, inventory, etc. do you have? Must be documented on your resume.
 3 years or more experience
 2 to 3 years of experience
 1 to 2 years of experience
 Less than 1 year of experience


5.
How many years of experience working for Fleet & Family Readiness programs do you have listed on your resume
 2 or more years of experience
 1 to 2 years of experience
 Less than 1 year of experience
 No experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙