Position Title
Building Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
MYPT-26-12845769 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Dec 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires considerable standing, bending, walking, pushing, pulling and climbing, and ability to perform moderately strenuous physical labor such as unassisted lifting, moving and carrying supplies and equipment weighing up to 45 pounds (100 pounds assisted).  It may also require climbing/descending stairs and properly placed stepladders.  Are you willing and able to perform work with these physical demands?

 Yes
 No


2.
This position may be designated ALPHA personnel for inclement weather or in the interest of national security and may be required to report to work when other employees are excused.  Are you willing and able to fulfill this designation if hired?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is subject to the possibility of working on weekends and holidays, as well as, rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours. Staff may be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime, as necessary to meet mission requirements.  Are you willing and able to work this type of work schedule?


 Yes
 No


4.
A valid state driver's license may be required for travel to other housing facilities within the normal scope of duties.  Do you currently possess or can you obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Building Manager position with the Unaccompanied Housing Department. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All claimed education and experience must be supported by resume and/or transcripts.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 1173 Housing Management Series?

 I possess one (1) full year of graduate level education. (Transcripts included)
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience as stated above.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education. (Transcripts included)
 I do not have any of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have performing basic maintenance tasks, such as changing light bulbs, lubricating door locks, tightening screws, minor furnishings repairs, cleaning lint traps on dryer vents or similar duties? All experience must be documented on resume to receive credit.
 I possess no experience with the above maintenance tasks.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience performing maintenance tasks.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience performing maintenance tasks.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience performing maintenance tasks.


3.
How many years of experience do you have applying basic math (e.g., addition, subtraction) and reading comprehension skills in a work setting?
 I possess no experience with the above-mentioned.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above-mentioned.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above-mentioned.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience with the above-mentioned.


4.
How would you rate your experience using personal computers and Microsoft Office applications (e.g., Word, Excel, Outlook) in a work environment?
 I do not have experience using Microsoft Office applications.
 I have used Microsoft Office occasionally for basic tasks – less than 6 months experience (e.g., typing documents, reading email).
 I have six (6) months to two (2) years of experience using Microsoft Office to complete regular work tasks (e.g., creating documents, managing email, data entry).
 I have two (2) or more years of experience using Microsoft Office applications as a regular part of my job responsibilities.


5.
How many years of experience do you have applying basic principles, concepts, standards, and regulations of customer service in a work setting?
 I possess no experience in customer service.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience in customer service.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience in customer service.
 I possess more than three (3) years of experience in customer service.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙