Position Title
Machinist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-12982357-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 50# lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


4.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Machinist, WG-3414-11, position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Welder duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have demonstrated independently the ability to do the following; perform work from inception to completion in the duties associated with job order work assignments. to perform the removal and reinstallation of ship components and to set up, operate and program one or more manual, computer aided, or Computer Numeric Control (CNC) machine tools such as lathes, milling machines, and/or grinders used in the machining processes required to repair Marine parts and components. I have also demonstrated independently the ability to perform machining operations such as, turning, milling, drilling, and boring. I have demonstrated independently the ability to layout work, perform measuring operations utilizing micrometers, dial indicators, intrimiks and other precision instruments. I have demonstrated independently the ability to perform extensive valve repair (all aspects) and extensive pump repair (all aspects) including the ability to diagnose problems during operation and perform alignments. Responsibilities include ensuring team workers have all the appropriate tools, guidance, materials, and personal protective equipment required to accomplish the assigned work.
 I have demonstrated the ability to do the following; the accomplishment of work assignments to perform the removal and reinstallation of ship components and machining using a wide range of conventional and computer numerical control (CNC) tools such as lathes, vertical, and horizontal boring mills; bench, plain, and universal milling machines; shapers; planers; internal and external grinders; thread cutters; and radial drills. I have demonstrated the ability to use a variety of machine tool attachments such as rotary vises, magnetic chucks, vertical milling heads, angular drive heads, taper attachments, rotary tables.
 I have the ability or potential ability to complete work assignments such as perform the removal and reinstallation of ship components and perform machining operations such as, turning, milling, drilling, and boring. I also have the ability or potential ability to layout work, perform measuring operations utilizing micrometers, dial indicators, intrimiks and other precision instruments.
 I have knowledge of the various areas and responsibilities of a Machinist.
 I am unable to perform the duties of a Machinist.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙