Position Title
Cook - Bowling
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26326 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
Completion of this questionnaire is required; it is a condition of employment.


1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for the position of Cook.  Please fill out the questions below to the best of your abilities.


1.
Do you possess the knowledge and understanding of food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures. Thorough knowledge of the full range of food preparation principles including the techniques and procedures necessary to develop new or revise current recipes and prepare and cook food in large quantities.
 I have at least 6 months of knowledge and understanding of food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures. Thorough knowledge of the full range of food preparation principles including the techniques and procedures necessary to develop new or revise current recipes and prepare and cook food in large quantities.
 I have no knowledge or understanding of food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and or safe work procedures. No knowledge of the full range of food preparation principles including the techniques and procedures necessary to develop new or revise current recipes and prepare and cook food in large quantities.
 I have one to two years of knowledge and understanding of food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures. Thorough knowledge of the full range of food preparation principles including the techniques and procedures necessary to develop new or revise current recipes and prepare and cook food in large quantities.
 I have two to three years of knowledge and understanding of food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures. Thorough knowledge of the full range of food preparation principles including the techniques and procedures necessary to develop new or revise current recipes and prepare and cook food in large quantities.


2.
Do you have any formal culinary training and/or education?
 No formal training. On the job training performed.
 Received a degree from a culinary institute. (Please upload your certificate or degree, must provide proof of education)
 Received culinary specialist training through the military.
 Received some formal training but did not complete a program. (must provide proof of education)


3.
Do you have knowledge of the method of general cooking, baking, preparing and serving quality food in mass quantities for large group of people?
 Yes, I have knowledge of the method of general cooking, baking, preparing and serving quality food in mass quantities for large group of people.
 No, I do have knowledge of the method of general cooking, baking, preparing and serving quality food in mass quantities for large group of people.


4.
Describe your actual cooking experience.
 Four or more years of experience.
 Less than one year of experience or no experience.
 One year of experience.
 Two to three years of experience.


5.
Do you have at least one year experience as a Cook in the food service industry?
 No
 Yes


6.
What type of experience do you have in the preparation of and cooking of food? [Select all that apply]
 A. Cutting, trimming, preparing meats, poultry, seafood for cooking.
 B. Deciding on size of food portions.
 C. I don't have any experience in the above.
 D. Inspecting food returned to the kitchen to determine the extent of wastage.
 E. Preparing and cooking meats, soups, vegetables, sauces and other types of food items.
 F. Preparing or directing the preparation of complex salads and desserts.
 G. Regulating cooking temperatures, tests foods in cooking, and season as appropriate.
 H. Tasting and inspecting foods prepared by kitchen staff.


7.
Do you currently reside on the island of Oahu?
 Yes, I reside on the island of Oahu.
 No, I do not reside on the island of Oahu.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙