Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-12933244-AF-26-041 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Guard Information
1.
Are you currently a member of the Indiana Air National Guard?
 Yes, I am an Airman with the Indiana Air National Guard.
 No, I am not.


2.
Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of  E5 through E6?
 Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.


3.
Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


4.
*PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 No, this does not apply to me.


5.
Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.


6.
Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

Experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications. Must be skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.

 Yes
 No


2.
Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
 

In addition to journey-level experience or training equivalent to or exceeding the WG-10 or WU-10 grade level, positions at this grade level may include performing duties as a dedicated crew chief. Other positions may include responsibility for performing, coordinating, and/or overseeing the work and any periodic inspections to be done on an aircraft whether it is alone, or with the assistance of other mechanics and/or workers. Some positions may include coordinating the work of other journey-level workers in other trades to work simultaneously on the aircraft. Other positions may include serving as the technical authority to advise on, examine, and approve all airframe, mechanical, electrical, and pneudraulic repairs of assigned aircraft. Experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.

 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


3.
Ability or skill to plan, develop, and conduct training and select appropriate instructional method, utilizing either formalized classroom or practical on-the-job method of instruction.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


4.
Knoweldge and skill to provide technical guidance and assistance to flight crews regarding observed discrepancies and experienced in-flight characteristics and system malfunctions. Performs or assists in aircrew debriefing when required.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


5.
Knowledge of technical theory and operational characteristics, not only of the airframe, but of mission systems peculiar to the unit aircraft and assigned mission.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.
 I have the knowledge to write a textbook for graduate or undergraduate study in this area or to develop industry-wide guidance or policy in this area.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
Knowledge of theory and operation of aircraft systems to be able to troubleshoot malfunctions and problems, and determine the extent of repairs and involvement of others in expediting return to combat ready status. Skill and knowledge required to resolve problems and devise solutions when aircraft are not at home station, or at a location where the full complement of support equipment, supplies, parts, tools, and maintenance personnel are available.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙