Position Title
Supervisory Therapeutic Medical Physicist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12896135-26-TMB Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses should match the experience listed on your resume and are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Master's degree or higher in a physics, science, or engineering discipline recognized by an accredited college or university with at least 30 semester hours in medical physics, health physics, radiological science, physics, engineering, chemistry, or biology; or an equivalent foreign degree and coursework substantiated by the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services.
 Yes
 No


3.
BOARD CERTIFICATION. Persons hired or reassigned to TMP positions in the VHA must be board certified in the field of therapeutic medical physics by an approved certifying body. The board certificate must be current and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education.
Approved Certifying Bodies:
(a) The American Board of Radiology (ABR) in any of the following field titles:
1. Therapeutic Medical Physics
2. Therapeutic Radiologic or Therapeutic Radiological Physics
3. Radiologic Physics or Radiological Physics
(b) The American Board of Medical Physics (ABMP) in the subfield of Radiation Oncology Physics.
(c) The Canadian College of Physicists in Medicine (CCPM) in the subfield of Radiation Oncology Physics.
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS
a. Creditable Experience
(1) Knowledge of Current Medical Physicist Practices. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with current professional TMP practice. The experience must be post-master's degree or above. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active professional practice, which is paid/nonpaid employment as a professional TMP.
(2) Quality of Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is obtained following graduation with a master's or doctoral degree in medical physics, physics, or another relevant physical science or engineering discipline from an accredited training program and includes work as a professional TMP directly related to the position to be filled. Qualifying experience must also be at a level comparable to TMP experience at the next lower grade level. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher level duties must consist of significantly larger scope, administrative independence, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.
(3) Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional TMP is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, a TMP employed 20 hours a week, or on a 1/2-time basis, would receive 1 full-time workweek of credit for each 2 weeks of service.
(4) Clinical Training/Clinical Residency. TMPs go through a post-graduate clinical training program in therapeutic medical physics before they are eligible to work as a TMP. The post-graduate clinical training may be substituted for creditable experience on a yearfor-year basis.


Grade Determinations.
In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.

GS-14 Supervisory Therapeutic Medical Physicist
(a) Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, completion of a minimum of 1 year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
(b) Assignments. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty), and range of variety, and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. A supervisory TMP provides professional, scientific, and clinical practice of therapeutic medical physics for external beam and brachytherapy treatment procedures from treatment simulation to treatment planning to the actual treatment delivery. The incumbent oversees the technical development and 8 implementation of new radiotherapy techniques and modalities; oversees the activities of all other TMPs, dosimetrists, and other staff members assigned to the unit; directs the technical aspects of treatment procedures; and, performs duties qualifying them as a supervisor to include planning and directing work, developing performance plans, evaluating staff performance, and other administrative functions. The supervisory TMP has full supervisory responsibility for a staff that includes lower level TMP positions and other clinical and professional staff within the unit. The employee directs the implementation of new equipment and processes through oversight of the following activities: assesses radiation therapy equipment needs; monitors acceptance testing and commissioning of new radiation therapy equipment; evaluates the adequacy of room shielding and radiation surveys; develops and implements treatment processes in concert with a radiation oncologist; and, ensures the precision and accuracy of treatment delivery. The employee optimizes technical infrastructure and workflow for streamlined operations in the department of radiation oncology through the mastery and application of techniques such as Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA), Root Cause Analysis (RCA), and Fault Tree Analysis (FTA). The employee directs the radiation therapy treatment planning team through oversight of the following activities: designs and approves of treatment plans; monitors the accuracy of treatment data recorded in the patient's medical records; provides consultation to the radiation oncologist regarding difficult treatment cases; performs patient-specific treatment validation measurements; develops medical physics policies and procedures for the delivery and quality assessment of advanced treatment modalities such as intensity modulated radiation therapy, stereotactic body radiation therapy and brachytherapy. The employee develops, operates, and documents the medical physics quality assurance program; ensures regulatory compliance; supervises the Radiation Safety Officer's radiation safety program; and, trains and educates radiation oncology team members in safe operations in Radiation Oncology.


4.
EXPERIENCE: GS-14 Supervisory Therapeutic Medical Physicist:
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and select the ONE that best describes your qualifications for the Supervisory Therapeutic Medical Physicist (TMP), GS-14. Make sure your resume supports your response.

(a) Experience.
In addition to the basic requirements, completion of a minimum of 1 year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the next lower grade. Experience such as but not limited to provides professional, scientific, and clinical practice of therapeutic medical physics for external beam radiotherapy and brachytherapy treatment procedures from treatment simulation to treatment planning to the actual treatment delivery. The incumbent oversees the technical and programmatic development and implementation of new radiotherapy techniques and modalities, oversees the activities of all other TMPs, dosimetrists and other staff members assigned to the unit, directs the technical aspects of treatment procedures, and performs duties qualifying them as a supervisor to include planning and directing work, developing performance plans, evaluating staff performance, and other administrative functions. The supervisory TMP has full supervisory responsibility for a staff that includes lower level TMP positions and other clinical and professional staff that has technical responsibilities within the unit. The employee directs the implementation of new equipment and processes through oversight of the following activities: assesses radiation therapy equipment needs; monitors acceptance testing and commissioning of new radiation therapy equipment; evaluates the adequacy of room shielding and radiation surveys; develops and implements treatment processes in concert with a radiation oncologist; and ensures the precision and accuracy of treatment delivery. The employee optimizes technical infrastructure and workflow for streamlined operations in the department of radiation oncology through the mastery and application of techniques such as Process Mapping, Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA), Root Cause Analysis (RCA), and Fault Tree Analysis (FTA). The employee directs the radiation therapy treatment planning team through oversight of the following activities: designs and approves of treatment plans; monitors the accuracy of treatment data recorded in the patient's medical records; provides consultation to the radiation oncologist regarding difficult treatment cases; performs patient specific treatment validation measurements; develops medical physics policies and procedures for the delivery and quality assessment of advanced treatment modalities such as intensity modulated radiation therapy, stereotactic body radiation therapy and brachytherapy. The employee develops, operates and documents the medical physics quality assurance program, ensures regulatory compliance, supervises the Radiation Safety Officer's radiation safety program, and trains and educates radiation oncology team members in safe operations in Radiation Oncology. The supervisory level TMP may also provide consultative services to the National Radiation Oncology Program (NROP), the National Health Physics Program (NHPP), other VHA program offices and other federal agencies. The TMP will be expected to participate and function as the subject matter expert in the build and activation of a new 14,000 square foot Radiation Oncology Department as it pertains to shielding, policy, and radiation safety testing. The TMP will be expected to become fully competent and familiar with the Elekta Unity MR-LINAC, selected traditional LINAC system, planning system, CT simulator and any/all QA procedures.
 I possess at least one full year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in federal service (GS-13) performing the listed duties.
 I do not possess 1 full year of experience.


5.
DEMONSTRATED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS, AND ABILITIES. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

1. Ability to oversee the technical development and implementation of new radiotherapy techniques and modalities. This includes knowledge of current standards of care, VA policies, trends and changes in delivery technology, as well as fair, principled, and decisive leadership practices.
2. Ability to optimize technical infrastructure and workflow for streamlined operations in the department of radiation oncology. This includes the knowledge and application of techniques such as Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA), Root Cause Analysis (RCA), and Fault Tree Analysis (FTA).
3. Ability to assess the qualifications and abilities of current and prospective employees, to include staff performance evaluations and professional development.
4. Advanced knowledge of regulatory requirements, manufacturer's standards, and professional society guidelines for performing quality assurance of radiation therapy equipment to include accelerators, simulators, and high dose rate/low dose rate brachytherapy delivery systems.
5. Ability to use written and verbal communication with a strong command of technical writing considerations.
6. Ability to collaborate with the members of other disciplines and supervisors and to represent the profession both in and outside of VHA. This includes knowledge of the roles, contributions, and interrelationships with other health care specialties and supporting divisions.
7. Knowledge of instructional methods and documenting competencies.
8. Ability to manage and supervises employees.
 Yes, I can demonstrate all the knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Listed
 No, I can't demonstrate all the knowledge, Skills, and Abilities Listed


May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a TMP on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualifications requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following apply.
(1) Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
(2) TMPs  who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification that meet all the basic requirements of the qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
(4) TMPs who are converted to title 38 hybrid status under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry as a TMP.


INSTRUCTIONS: Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


INSTRUCTIONS: RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙