Position Title
Maintenance Helper
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12914796 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
Requires prolonged standing; stooping, bending, kneeling, climbing, and working in tiring and uncomfortable positions.

Are you able to meet these requirements?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please describe your experience and knowledge of basic tools and completing maintenance tasks to assist journey-level workers in electrical, plumbing, or carpentry work.
 I possess more than two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I possess between one (1) to two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I possess between six (6) months to one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess less than six (6) months experience as describe above.
 I possess no experience as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have a basic understanding and working knowledge of safety and environmental rules and regulations concerning procedures, equipment, commonly used chemicals and basic safety?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please describe your experience and ability to use and maintain basic hand tools and equipment to perform the duties listed in the announcement.
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess more than one (1) year of experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙