Position Title
Police Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12934834-26-AXS-OCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
Birmingham, AL
Montgomery, AL
Tuscaloosa, AL
Tuskegee, AL
Anchorage, AK
Phoenix, AZ
Prescott, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Fayetteville, AR
Little Rock, AR
North Little Rock, AR
Fresno, CA
Livermore, CA
Loma Linda, CA
Long Beach, CA
Los Angeles, CA
Mather, CA
Menlo Park, CA
Palo Alto, CA
San Diego, CA
San Francisco, CA
Vallejo, CA
Aurora, CO
Denver, CO
Glendale, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Loveland, CO
Newington, CT
West Haven, CT
Wilmington, DE
District of Columbia, DC
Bay Pines, FL
Gainesville, FL
Lake City, FL
Miami, FL
Orlando, FL
Saint Petersburg, FL
Tampa, FL
West Palm Beach, FL
Atlanta, GA
Augusta, GA
Decatur, GA
Dublin, GA
Duluth, GA
Honolulu, HI
Boise, ID
Chicago, IL
Danville, IL
Hines, IL
Marion, IL
North Chicago, IL
Westchester, IL
Fort Wayne, IN
Indianapolis, IN
Marion, IN
Des Moines, IA
Iowa City, IA
Leavenworth, KS
Topeka, KS
Wichita, KS
Fort Thomas, KY
Lexington, KY
Louisville, KY
Alexandria, LA
New Orleans, LA
Pineville, LA
Shreveport, LA
Augusta, ME
Togus, ME
Baltimore, MD
Linthicum, MD
Perry Point, MD
Bedford, MA
Boston, MA
Brockton, MA
Jamaica Plain, MA
Leeds, MA
West Roxbury, MA
Ann Arbor, MI
Battle Creek, MI
Detroit, MI
Iron Mountain, MI
Saginaw, MI
Eagan, MN
Minneapolis, MN
Saint Cloud, MN
Biloxi, MS
Jackson, MS
Ridgeland, MS
Columbia, MO
Kansas City, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Fort Harrison, MT
Miles City, MT
Grand Island, NE
Lincoln, NE
Omaha, NE
North Las Vegas, NV
Reno, NV
Manchester, NH
East Orange, NJ
Lyons, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Albany, NY
Batavia, NY
Bath, NY
Bronx, NY
Brooklyn, NY
Buffalo, NY
Canandaigua, NY
Montrose, NY
New York, NY
Northport, NY
Syracuse, NY
Wappingers Falls, NY
Asheville, NC
Charlotte, NC
Durham, NC
Fayetteville, NC
Kernersville, NC
Salisbury, NC
Fargo, ND
Chillicothe, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Cleveland, OH
Columbus, OH
Dayton, OH
Muskogee, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Portland, OR
Roseburg, OR
White City, OR
Altoona, PA
Butler, PA
Coatesville, PA
Erie, PA
Lebanon, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
Wilkes Barre, PA
San Juan, PR
Providence, RI
Charleston, SC
Columbia, SC
Fort Meade, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Sioux Falls, SD
Memphis, TN
Mountain Home, TN
Murfreesboro, TN
Nashville, TN
Amarillo, TX
Arlington, TX
Big Spring, TX
Bonham, TX
Dallas, TX
El Paso County, TX
Harlingen, TX
Houston, TX
Kerrville, TX
San Antonio, TX
Temple, TX
Waco, TX
Salt Lake City, UT
White River Junction, VT
Hampton, VA
Richmond, VA
Salem, VA
Lakewood, WA
Seattle, WA
Spokane, WA
Tacoma, WA
Vancouver, WA
Walla Walla, WA
Beckley, WV
Clarksburg, WV
Huntington, WV
Martinsburg, WV
Madison, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Tomah, WI
Cheyenne, WY
Sheridan, WY
Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Selected applicants are required to successfully complete a comprehensive medical and psychological examination prior to entering on duty to determine fitness for duty as a Police Officer. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a background investigation, which may include the administration of a polygraph examination?
 Yes
 No


5.
New VA Police Officers are required to attend an 8-week course at the VA Law Enforcement Training Center in Little Rock, Arkansas. Satisfactory completion of this course is a condition of continued employment. Would you be willing to attend such training in a location that may be away from your current residence?
 Yes
 No


6.
A Police Officer may be expected to continue irregular duty hours either at the Medical Center, local police offices, or at court especially during investigations of serious criminal incidents. This type of working schedule may negatively affect or burden family responsibilities. Are you willing to accept these working conditions?
 Yes
 No


7.
Police Officers encounter people experiencing extreme poverty and personal hardship, such as separation from family who are difficult, hostile or distressed. Investigators also may witness drowning's, vehicle accidents, and other tragedies. Police Officers are occasionally exposed to people who carry infectious diseases. Would you be able to work in these conditions?
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions for this position as detailed in the announcement? This includes:
Attendance at VA Law Enforcement Training Center in Little Rock, Arkansas
Random drug testing
Medical and psychological examination
Character investigation
 Yes
 No


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Police Officer position with the Veterans Health Administration. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview, it may be requested at that time.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: Select the ONE statement below that best describes your experience to meet the minimum requirements for this position. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this announcement for detailed information.


1.
For this Police Officer, GS-6 position, I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service (or equivalent pay band), that provided a knowledge of a body of basic laws and regulations, law enforcement operations, practices, and techniques and involved responsibility for maintaining order and protecting life and property. Specialized experience includes maintaining order to protect life and property; taking initial complaints; interviewing witnesses; securing a crime scene and conducting limited searches; responding to emergency situations; gathering information and preparing reports; conducting routine patrol, traffic control, and traffic accident investigations. Experience as a security guard or corrections officer is generally not qualifying. Note: You must provide detailed information of your experience performed. Information such as "I was a Patrolman", "I was a Police Officer for a number of years," or "I enforced Federal, State, county, and laws" is insufficient to determine your qualifications. Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hour worked per week.
 Yes
 No


DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIREMENT: This position requires a current, valid, state-issued driver's license. For the following question, indicate either Yes or No. Please select only one letter. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your driver's license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you may be required to provide a copy of your valid state-issued driver's license.


2.
Do you possess a valid, state-issued driver's license, have a safe driving record, and demonstrate that you are medically qualified to operate the appropriate motor vehicle safely?
 Yes
 No


FIREARM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT: VA Police Officers are required to carry agency-approved firearms while on duty on VA property. Officers must achieve and maintain qualification/certification with the agency-approved firearms as condition of gaining and continuing employment as a Police Officer. Applicants must be able to possess firearms under the terms of the Gun Control Act of 1968, as amended (18 U.S.C. 922(g)(9).


3.
Are you willing and able to achieve and maintain qualification/certification with the agency-approved firearm?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙