Position Title
Attorney - Advisor (FOIA)
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-12966371-26-NR-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14
15


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Attorney - Advisor (FOIA), GS-0905-13 position.


1.
This position has a Basic Requirement which must be met. Please select how you meet the Basic Requirement for the Attorney-Advisor, 0905 series.

NOTE: Transcripts are required to verify the Basic Requirement. Failure to submit all relevant transcripts to support the Basic Requirement will result in non-consideration for this position.
 I have a Juris Doctor (J.D.) professional law degree.
 I have a Master of Law (LL.M) professional law degree.
 I have a Bachelor of Law (LL.B) professional law degree.
 I do not have any of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. Commonwealth, U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0905-13, Attorney - Advisor (FOIA).

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that includes: Conducting complex legal analysis and drafting legal documents as an attorney.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


4.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0905-14, Attorney - Advisor (FOIA).

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that includes: Making recommendations on policies, analyzing and evaluating complex legal issues, and advising senior leadership on legal matters as an attorney.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


5.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0905-15, Attorney - Advisor (FOIA).

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that includes: Providing complex legal advice, performing legal research, drafting legal documents, and handling litigation, as an attorney.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙