Position Title
Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-13019340-26-AJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eugene, OR
 B. Roseburg, OR


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-0601-12, position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please
select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates
your ability to perform the duties of this position.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency-
A candidate will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient
in written and spoken English. See chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education:
Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.

Have you successfully completed education as required?

Please note: transcripts with confer date are required with your application package.
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure:
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you currently hold License as described above ?

Please note: Copy of your current, unrestricted license is required with your application package.


 Yes
 No


4.
Credential:
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Do you hold the credentials as stated above?

Please note: A copy of your current, unrestricted credential is required with your application package.
 Yes
 No


5.
Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-12
Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must:
i. Have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. RRTs at this grade level in this assignment have experience demonstrating advanced practice skills and clinical judgment across many areas of respiratory care both inpatient and outpatient.
ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: 
In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate the following KSAs
i.  Ability to assign personnel and tasks to be accomplished in a manner that assures completion of theworkload. Ability to oversee and direct clinical guidance in a manner that assures completion of the workload.
ii. Ability to oversee and direct clinical guidance in a manner that assures completion of the workload.
iii. Ability to communicate with individuals of varying backgrounds to solve problems and provide conflict resolution.
iv. Ability to recommend uncommon or atypical interventions.
v. Ability to recommend ways to improve patient care and operations through independent research and evaluation of new equipment and therapies

Assignments. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety and must be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. Lead RRTs are found in higher complexity facilities (level 1 and 2) and the lead duties must be regular and reoccurring and must constitute at lead 25% of the duty time. This assignment may be established as day/evening/night and/or inpatient/outpatient. They ensure work is distributed among employees in accordance with established workflow or job specialization. Lead RRTs assure timely accomplishment of the assigned workload, assess the status, quality and progress of work and make day-to- day adjustments in accordance with established priorities. They provide clinical practice guidance for other respiratory staff and assist with technical work problems not covered by precedents or established policies for non- routine or complex procedures. They assist RRTs in determining treatment options for complex patients. They study the quality and quantity of work and operating effectiveness and take or recommend needed actions. They represent the department at interdisciplinary meetings.


Do you meet the experience and KSA requirements as listed above?
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙