Position Title
Youth Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12905208 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former Navy NAF employee that occupied a position within CNIC Headquarters, Region or Installation Human Resources Office? If yes, you must submit a copy of your Personnel Action Report (PAR) at time of application.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the School Age Care Director position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you?
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, or related field of study and two years of progressively responsible specialized full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have combination of education and experience; education includes courses in a youth-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours. In addition, I have two years of progressively responsible specialized full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a master’s degree or higher related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, or related field of study.
 I have a bachelor’s degree related to youth programs, such as youth recreation, physical education, elementary education, secondary education, home economics with an emphasis in human development, youth development, or related field of study.
 I have an unrelated degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child and youth development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management.?
 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director’s level in a Department of War (DoW) Child and Youth Program (CYP).
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above, at the director’s level in a DoW CYP.
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above, at the director’s level outside of a DoW CYP.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above, at the director’s level outside of a DoW CYP.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial, budget, and resource management practices as it pertains to child and youth programs?
 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director’s level in a DoW CYP.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above, at the director’s level in a DoW CYP.
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above, at the director’s level outside of the DoW.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above, at the director’s level outside of the DoW.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 5-9 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1-4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
What size of DoW School-Age Care (SAC) program do you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing an extra-large DoW SAC program (300+ children).
 I have experience managing a large DoW SAC program (200-299 children).
 I have experience managing a medium DoW SAC program (101 to 199 children).
 I have experience managing a small DoW SAC program (up to 100 children).
 I have experience managing an extra-small DoW SAC program (less than 28 children).
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙