Position Title
Maintenance Worker (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13042234-DE-KAL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
You may choose multiple options:

What work schedule(s) are you willing to accept?
 A. Full-Time
 B. Part-Time
 C. Intermittent


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


The current position I am applying to is a temporary seasonal appointment with less than 1040 hours. I am willing to accept this type of position. I understand that responding "No" to the item below will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for St. John, USVI is defined as 75 miles from Virgin Islands National Park 1300 Cruz Bay Creek St. John, VI 00830

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised? If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision (Screen-out Element)


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience or education requirements for the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-05 position(s). Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 I am able to independently perform the full range of maintenance worker duties associated with more than one trade such as carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical, masonry, and other trades appropriate to this position. I have performed these duties on my own initiative with only general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I am able to troubleshoot and take initiative to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of a variety of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than one area. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous work as required by the position. I possess the ability to use a computer, maintain records, and perform simple arithmetic calculations.
 I am able to perform common maintenance worker duties associated with more than one trade area such as carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical, masonry, and other trades appropriate to this position without more than normal supervision. I take initiative to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than one area. I have the ability to create material lists related to labor and costs of maintenance projects. Tasks assigned to me are inspected upon completion by my work leader or supervisor for conformance to requirements. I am able to perform strenuous work as required by the position. I possess the ability to use a computer, maintain records, and perform simple arithmetic calculations.
 I am able to perform most maintenance worker duties associated with more than one trade such as carpentry, painting, plumbing, and other trades appropriate to this position. I have performed these duties under close supervision and subject to frequent inspection. I am able to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of a variety of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than one area. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous work as required by the position. I possess the ability to use a computer, maintain records, and perform simple arithmetic calculations.
 I do not possess the experience/skills as described above


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙