Position Title
Telecommunications Specialist - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-039102-12976951-JTW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST, NH-0391-02. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST, NH-0391-02. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Due to the use of 120-day rosters, this period of experience may be completed within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 I have, or within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement will have, at least three years of progressively responsible general experience, one year of experience which is equivalent to at least a pay band NH-01, (GS-04), and at a level close to the work of this position that has given me the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform. Typically, we would find this experience in work within this field that is closely related. To be creditable, at least one year of the general experience must have been equivalent to the next lower pay band (NH-01) grade level (GS-04) or equivalent. This experience will provide a basic knowledge of telecommunications functions, problems, and/or solutions and also experience in evaluating, analyzing, developing, managing, or improving communications systems, procedures, and requirements that demonstrated knowledge of current developments and trends in communications concepts and technology.
 I have successfully completed a 4 year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university: Major study: electrical or electronic engineering, mathematics, physics, public utilities, statistics, computer science, telecommunications management, information systems management, business administration, industrial management, or other fields related to the position to be filled. Other Education: Communications/electronics or automatic data processing training in technical institutes or business schools above the high school level or in Armed Forces schools that included advanced instruction in addition to basic courses may be substituted for general experience on a month-for-month basis. NOTE: You must provide your transcripts.
 I have a combination of experience and education that provides me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of a Telecommunication Specialist.
 I do not have the experience/education such as described in A, B, or C above.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙