Position Title
Alcohol & Tobacco Specialist (Quality Assurance Project Coordinator)
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12918755 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
 Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
 Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To be qualified for this position at the GS-13 level, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes:

-Developing training and guidance relating to the labeling or formulation of alcoholic beverages; AND

-Interpreting Federal Alcohol Administration Act (FAA), the Internal Revenue Code, and other regulations relating to the labeling, formulation and production of alcohol beverages; AND

-Performing analysis relating to laws, regulations, policies and/or procedures and providing recommendations.



1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
Choose the statement (s) that describes your experience in mentoring others.
 A. I have conducted training programs that are consistent with policies and procedures.
 B. I have adapted a prescribed training program or lesson plan when it appeared that the students required a different approach.
 C. I have provided constructive feedback and acted as a mentor.
 D. I have helped others learn through formal or informal methods.
 E. I have identified training needs and developed instructional materials and job aids.
 F. I have assessed the effectiveness of training that I conducted.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


4.
From the list below, identify the types of audiences with which you have experience communicating orally or making oral presentations for training.
 A. Peers and managers within my Bureau
 B. Bureau executives
 C. Industry members
 D. Other non-work-related audiences
 E. Served as a conference leader or facilitator
 F. None of the above.


5.
Which activities have you performed in a professional setting to draw conclusions regarding an employee skill gap?
 A. I have developed program training objectives to align with program goals.
 B. I have compared program training information to benchmark organization training
 C. I have assessed training goals and gaps to meet program performance needs.
 D. I have compared sufficient competencies against program training skill gaps.
 E. None of the above


6.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your skill in communicating information, including making presentations to various groups including management officials in Federal, and/or private sector organizations.
 A. I have orally justified controversial decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 B. I have delivered formal presentations or training sessions concerning alcohol beverage labeling or formulation.
 C. I have persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow recommended courses of action.
 D. I have participated in meetings to discuss policies and procedures and present findings.
 E. I have provided advice to managers on program operations, policies and regulatory requirements.
 F. I have recommended remedial action to correct existing or potential problems.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Which of the following best describes your experience communicating technical and non-technical information orally?
 I have completed formal training in public speaking or communications.
 I have orally presented non-technical information on the job to superiors, coworkers and others.
 I have orally presented non-technical and technical information on the job to superiors, coworkers and others.
 None of the above


8.
Choose the one statement that best identifies the highest level of experience you have communicating effectively in writing, including preparation of reports and other records of work performed.
 I have prepared written reports that contain sufficient detail and facts to support my conclusions and recommendations.
 I have work or school experience preparing reports that describe research or analytical work performed.
 I have experience preparing standard, recurring narrative documents.
 I have received awards and/or high ratings on my performance appraisals related to my experience in communicating in writing, including preparation of reports and other records of work performed.
 I have not performed any of the above.


9.
Choose the one statement that best describes your ability to prepare, compile and present technical and job specific information to others.
 I have prepared, compiled, and presented technical, job specific information in narrative form to management.
 I have compiled and presented job specific information to management in narrative form.
 I have compiled and presented information in narrative form to management based on specific instructions given by the supervisor.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


10.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience in communicating in writing and orally to provide guidance/training to other TTB employees as well as industry members on regulations, procedures, policies, correspondence, public guidance, and other materials.
 A. I have developed training aids and presentations for internal and external audiences based on needs and requirements that I have assessed or determined.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, reports, and/or articles for briefs and proposals.
 C. I have given presentations and briefings to a broad audience to articulate expectations of a TTB regulated program.
 D. I have provided oral instruction to internal TTB personnel on at least one TTB regulated program.
 E. I have written position papers on new or revised policies
 F. I have served in a Customer Service capacity to provide technical advice to industry, representatives and other governmental offices.
 G. I have broad experience with the regulations, policies and procedures of the Bureau and can educate other employees to carry out the Bureau’s mission.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Choose the statement(s) that best describes your experience interpreting comprehensive laws, regulatory or public guidance material and provide technical advice to supervisors, peers and other personnel.
 A. I have performed studies of laws, regulations and guidance material and provide technical interpretations that are supported to supervisors, peers and other personnel.
 B. I have reviewed rulings, letters, memoranda, guidance, and forms associated with a TTB program area and provided instruction to others to ensure consistency with policy and regulatory decisions.
 C. I have conducted long-range or large scale regulatory or public guidance studies to determine, based on industry trends, if updated guidance is required.
 D. I have reviewed, evaluated, and recommended improvements to TTB labeling or formulation functions and program mission areas.
 E. I have devised, developed and implemented comprehensive changes and improvements.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


12.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience in performing studies and analyses of proposed alcohol regulatory strategies, policies, programs, and practices as a foundation for developing comprehensive plans.
 A. I have analyzed the processes, structures, and problems of TTB programs for needed improvements in an existing regulatory program.
 B. I have regularly conducted research involving alcohol regulatory programs using laws, regulations, and directives.
 C. I have conducted office reviews and audits to identify specific needs and problems.
 D. I have been responsible for tracking and monitoring a variety of specific activities relating to an organization’s administrative policies and business practices.
 E. I have reviewed proposed guidance and provided comments to supervisors.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks


13.
Which of the following best describes your experience in reviewing the work of others for accuracy and completeness?
 I have reviewed alcohol related work of others for accuracy and completeness.
 I have reviewed work of others for accuracy and completeness.
 I have reviewed alcohol beverage labeling or formula related applications work of others for accuracy and completeness.
 I have experience approving applications that I have completed.
 None of the above


14.
I have performed the following leadership functions in a project or program:
 A. Coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 B. Evaluated the effectiveness of a complete project or program goal.
 C. Followed up with team members to assure timeliness in meeting milestones.
 D. Implemented work completed.
 E. Planned work assignments to be assigned to team members.
 F. Reported progress to senior management.
 G. Resolved conflicts, differences or problems among team members.
 H. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness.
 I. Set goals, milestones and expectations.
 J. None of the above.


15.
. Choose the statement(s) that best describe your experience managing programs including conducting long-range planning and setting goals, objectives and priorities.
 A. I have reviewed work within a program area for technical accuracy, soundness of judgment and effectiveness.
 B. I have established and executed priorities and schedules for assigned work.
 C. I have reviewed proposed documents forwarded for comment by other offices within the organization to ensure consistency with established policy involving a regulatory program area.
 D. I have planned and completed regulatory projects.
 E. I have successfully worked within available resources to accomplish objectives.
 F. I have been responsible for meeting organization deadlines for highly controversial and technical projects and programs.
 G. I have overseen the development of program objectives and priorities.
 H. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙