Position Title
Attorney-Advisor (General)
Agency
Office of the Solicitor
Announcement Number
CCJV-26-13067246-EX-DW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


2.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
What attracted you to this position?
 Service as a Civil Servant
 Government Benefits
 Salary
 Work Schedule Flexibility
 Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 Job Stability
 Office Location
 Other


4.
If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below.


5.
Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a law degree (LL.B. or J.D.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a current, active membership in good standing, in the bar of a state, the District of Columbia, or a territory or commonwealth of the United States?

 Yes
 No


From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the position. Read all responses before making your selection. You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.


3.
Please select the response that best describes your background for the GS-12 level.

 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience following law school graduation.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have a second professional law degree.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have academic standing in the top one-third of my law school graduating class.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I graduated with academic honors.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation on the law school's law review.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation in the law school's moot court competition.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation in a clinical legal aid program.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have significant summer law office clerk experience.
 I have at least 1 year of professional legal experience AND I have other equivalent evidence of clearly superior achievement which I am submitting with my transcripts.
 None of the above matches my qualifications.


4.
Please select the response that best describes your background for the GS-13 level.

 I have at least 3 years of professional legal experience following law school graduation.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have a second professional law degree.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have academic standing in the top one-third of my law school graduating class.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I graduated with academic honors.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation on the law school's law review.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation in the law school's moot court competition.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation in a clinical legal aid program.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant summer law office clerk experience.
 I have at least 2 years of professional legal experience AND I have other equivalent evidence of clearly superior achievement which I am submitting with my transcripts.
 None of the above matches my qualifications.


5.
Please select the response that best describes your background for the GS-14 level.

 I have at least 4.5 years of professional legal experience following law school graduation.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have a second professional law degree.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have academic standing in the top one-third of my law school graduating class.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I graduated with academic honors.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation on the law school's law review.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation in the law school's moot court competition.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant participation in a clinical legal aid program.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have significant summer law office clerk experience.
 I have at least 3.5 years of professional legal experience AND I have other equivalent evidence of clearly superior achievement which I am submitting with my transcripts.
 None of the above matches my qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that my application must include a resume or Curriculum Vitae (CV) of no more than two pages.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙