Position Title
Economist
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-12910566-26-MJM-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14
15


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
1.
This position has a Basic Requirement which must be met. Please select how you meet the Basic Requirement for the Economist, 0110, series.

NOTE: Transcripts are required to verify the Basic Requirement. Failure to submit all relevant transcripts to support the Basic Requirement will result in non-consideration for this position.
 I have a degree in economics that includes at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION)
 I have a combination of education and experience- courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION) Examples of qualifying experience include: (a) individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation; (b) supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or (c) teaching assignments in a college or university that included both class instruction in economics subjects and one of the following (1) personal research that produced evidence of results, (2) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (3) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.
 I do not have either of the above.


2.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0110-13, Economist. NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate all of the following: (1) conducting or reviewing cost-benefit analysis, applied economic analysis, and/or regulatory impact analysis to address economic impacts so as to inform sound decision making; (2) documenting and evaluating the analytical objectives, methodologies, assumptions, and conclusions to identify implications found during research and analyses; and (3) utilizing foundational economic theories, research, and principles to evaluate the effectiveness of actions in furthering leadership goals.
 I do not have all of the specialized experience as described above.


3.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0110-14, Economist. NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate all of the following: (1) serving as a key member of a team, or leading a team, in conducting or reviewing cost-benefit analysis, applied economic analysis, and/or regulatory impact analysis for economically significant regulations to address economic impacts so as to inform sound decision making (2) performing duties such as initiating, creating, developing, designing, executing, and documenting a wide array of economic analyses and tasks to facilitate systematic data collection, analysis, modeling, reporting, and high-level policy contributions for an office; (3) documenting, evaluating the analytical objectives, methodologies, assumptions, and conclusions to identify implications found during research and analyses, and briefing stakeholders on the results of this analysis; and (4) utilizing economic theories, research, and principles to evaluate the effectiveness of high priority actions in furthering leadership goals.
 I do not have all of the specialized experience as described above.


4.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0110-15, Economist. NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate all of the following: (1) leading a team conducting or reviewing cost-benefit analysis, applied economic analysis, and/or regulatory impact analysis to address economic impacts for economically significant, strategically important actions so as to inform sound decision making; (2) addressing economic matters related to national studies that affect the leadership level policy, guides, and procedures of an organization; (3) performing duties such as initiating, creating, developing, designing, executing, and documenting a wide array of economic analyses and tasks to facilitate systematic data collection, analysis, modeling, reporting, and leadership level policy contributions for an office; (4) documenting and evaluating the analytical objectives, methodologies, assumptions, and conclusions to identify implications found during research and analyses, and briefing organizational leadership on the results of this analysis and recommendations; or (5) utilizing economic theories, research, and principles to evaluate the effectiveness of the highest priority actions developed by their organization in furthering leadership goals.
 I do not have all of the specialized experience as described above.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙