Position Title
IT Analyst
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
CCS-26-DHA-KG-13001618-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:

Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder

Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Please indicate the OIT location(s) you are interested in working at. If you choose a location outside of your local commuting area, you will be responsible for relocation expenses.
 A. Little Rock, AR
 O. North Little Rock, AR
 P. Phoenix, AZ
 Q. Long Beach, CA
 R. Los Angeles, CA
 S. Oakland, CA
 T. San Francisco, CA
 U. Denver, CO
 V. Washington, DC
 W. Miami, FL
 X. Orlando, FL
 Y. St. Petersburg, FL
 Z. Tampa, FL
 AA. Atlanta, GA
 AB. Chicago, IL
 AC. Hines, IL
 AD. North Chicago, IL
 AE. Bedford, MA
 AF. Boston, MA
 AG. Baltimore, MD
 AH. Detroit, MI
 AI. Minneapolis, MN
 AJ. St. Louis, MO
 AK. Eatontown, NJ
 AL. Albany, NY
 AM. Cleveland, OH
 B. Philadelphia, PA
 C. Pittsburgh, PA
 D. Nashville, TN
 E. Arlington, TX
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Dallas, TX
 H. Houston, TX
 I. San Antonio, TX
 J. Salt Lake City, UT
 K. Seatac, WA
 L. Seattle, WA
 M. Martinsburg, WV
 N. Shepherdstown, WV


Assessment 1
Basic Requirement (IOR): Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements of the Information Technology Management Series. Individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
The basic requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


1.
Do you possess the basic requirement as described above?

 Yes
 No


Specialized Experience GS-13: Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the Specialized Experience for a IT Analyst GS-2210-13. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, Specialized Experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Read all responses before making your selection.


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level? Specialized experience is defined as: Managing, configuring, maintaining, and supporting enterprise cloud-based contact center and unified communications platforms. This experience involves administering user accounts, system configurations, call routing, reporting tools, and platform integrations, as well as troubleshooting complex technical issues related to voice, messaging, customer engagement, workforce management, and omnichannel communications. The role also requires collaborating with IT teams, vendors, and stakeholders, utilizing diagnostic tools, managing support tickets and escalations, coordinating with third-party providers, and documenting operational procedures. Additional experience in supporting customer engagement operations, administering contact center technologies, agent support tools, quality management systems, and analytic platforms to improve operational efficiencies is essential.

This experience must be detailed in your resume to receive credit.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙