Position Title
Decision Review Officer
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-2026-SLR-13005004-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Oakland, CA
 B. Sacramento, CA
 C. San Diego, CA
 D. Boise, ID
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Seattle, WA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Seattle, WA, San Diego, CA, Boise, ID, Sacramento, CA, Oakland, CA, and Albuquerque, NM Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Seattle, WA, San Diego, CA, Boise, ID, Sacramento, CA, Oakland, CA, and Albuquerque, NM VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME IN GRADE: As a current Federal employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements, in addition to minimum qualifications, in order to be considered. For a GS-13 position, you must have at least 52 weeks (one year) at the GS-12 grade level, or higher by the closing date of this announcement.


2.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you (submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level, or higher.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements of occupying a GS-12 grade level or higher for at least 52 weeks (1 year), by the closing date of this announcement.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position. In addition to the time in grade requirements above, applicants must ALSO meet the minimum qualification requirements in order to be referred to management. Your qualifications must be clearly documented AND supported in your application materials. Select the appropriate response to the following, based upon your current experience, that documents your ability to perform the duties of this position.


3.
To qualify at the GS-13, applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-12). Specialized Experience is defined as work that involves functioning in either a capacity performing training, analyst or information systems duties of a claim's management process. The experience should be substantive and relevant and may have been gained in the federal, military, or private sector.

Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to: 
Conducting reviews to analyze the quality of completed rated cases,
Conducting evaluations and reviews on a quantitative or qualitative basis of claims development programs and operations to determine the effectiveness in meeting established goals and objectives;
Preparing or conducting training activities;
Identifying knowledge/skill gaps and plan training strategies;
Providing and implementing data for one or more information management systems accurately and timely or providing technical guidance and direction to staff in the daily operation and maintenance of claims management systems.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best reflects your level of experience. Note: Your response MUST be clearly supported in your submitted application materials.

Do you have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position AND that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level, in Federal service?
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


Your rating is subject to verification based on your resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit AND through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information is grounds for non-selection and/or termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete.
 I do not wish to certify that my answers are accurate, true and complete. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙