Position Title
PRODUCTION CONTROLLER (AIRCRAFT)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12853667-AR-26-008 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E3 - E9 or WO1 - CW3?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW3.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E3 - E9 or WO1 - CW3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses experience, education or training which indicates the candidate can reason in quantitative terms, communicate orally and in writing in a clear and concise manner, understanding the terminology and data pertaining to repair operations and process characteristics of the production activity?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you posses at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education or training preparing job or work orders; scheduling various phases of projects into the production facility; following up to see if work is progressing as planned and arranging for adjustments in materials, machine processes, and work sequencing allowing for changes. Experience with current automation support programs to input data, provide status of equipment, and monitor job order status, monitor work priorities, requisition repair parts, track repair parts status, etc.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a situation where you identified a maintenance request or a proposed course of action that was in conflict with established technical publications or Army regulations. How did you address this discrepancy with the requesting unit or your superiors, and what was the outcome?


4.
Walk me through your process for developing a long-range maintenance plan for a fleet of aircraft. How do you account for scheduled maintenance, operational requirements, and potential unforeseen issues? Describe a time when you had to make significant adjustments to a long-range plan and the reasons for those changes.


5.
This position relies heavily on the Aircraft Notebook (ACN) system. Describe your experience using ACN or a similar logistics management system. Tell me about a time you identified a significant error or data discrepancy in the system. What steps did you take to investigate and correct the issue, and what was the impact of your actions?


6.
This role supports critical state emergency operations, which often arise with little to no notice. Describe your experience in a role that required you to rapidly re-prioritize and re-allocate resources to support an urgent, high-priority mission. How did you ensure that both the emergency requirements and the routine maintenance needs were managed effectively during this period?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙