Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Community Center)
Agency
Pacific Air Forces
Announcement Number
26-9KFSWP014067 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse or unmarried child of a member (sponsor) of the U.S. Armed Forces or US Civilian employee (sponsor) of a U.S. Government Agency (including NAF activities who either: (a) have not passed their 21st birthday, (b) is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before that birthday or (c) has not passes their 23rd birthday and is enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution of higher learning? If claiming yes, please upload a copy of your sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders listing you by name.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a spouse of an active duty military member? A military spouse is defined as the wife or husband of an active duty member of the US Armed Forces, including the US Coast Guard and the full time National Guard or Reserves. For the purposes of this preference, the marriage must have occurred PRIOR to the service member's relocation via a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the military sponsor's new duty station. If claiming yes, a copy of your Sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders (along with proof of marriage if applicant's name does not appear on sponsor's orders) must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veteran?  If claiming yes, a copy of the DD 214 (member 4 or service 2 copy) or equivalent must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Air Force policy. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Air Force Non-appropriated Fund (NAF). This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for the position of a Recreation Assistant (Community Center), NF-0189-03.

Carefully read the following questions and select the statements that best describe your experience and/or education which demonstrate your ability to meet the requirements of this position. Your resume must support the responses to the questionnaire. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating. 



1.
Which statement best describes your experience assisting with the operation of recreation programs and the maintenance of recreation equipment and facilities?
 I have extensive experience assisting with the operation of recreation programs, setting up and maintaining equipment and facilities, and ensuring activities are conducted safely and efficiently with minimal supervision.
 I have some experience assisting with recreation programs and helping maintain equipment and facilities, but I occasionally require guidance.
 I have little to no experience assisting with recreation programs or maintaining recreation equipment and facilities.


2.
Which statement best describes your experience carrying out recurring group activities such as classes, clubs, special events, outreach activities, competitive games, or self-directed leisure programs?
 I have independently planned, organized, and carried out a variety of recurring group activities and events for participants of different ages.
 I have assisted with recurring group activities and events under the guidance of a supervisor or experienced staff member.
 I have little to no experience conducting group activities or recreation events.


3.
Which statement best describes your ability to support community recreation programs while providing excellent customer service?
 I have extensive experience assisting participants, explaining program rules and procedures, preparing activity areas, and ensuring a safe and enjoyable environment.
 I have some experience assisting customers and preparing activity areas but have limited experience supporting recreation programs.
 I have little or no experience supporting recreation programs or providing customer service in a recreation setting.


4.
Certification Statement: By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my resume and/or supporting documents do not support my responses to the questionnaire, my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not wish to certify the accuracy of my responses; and do not wish to be considered further for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙