Position Title
Supervisory Administrative Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12958710-26-JT Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


6.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Administrative Specialist position with the VA Puget Sound Health Care System.


Time-In-Grade Requirement:
Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation, but must have been held in the Federal service. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

For a GS-9 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-7.
For a GS-11 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-9.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-09:
Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-9 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS 7 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: knowledge of clinical operations and workload management in healthcare delivery systems; knowledge of human resources procedures; knowledge of basic budget and accounting principles; ability to analyze current or projected operational programs in order to establish priorities and milestones; knowledge of analytical tools and techniques used to gather, analyze and report and/or present information; skilled in oral and written communication in order to prepare and present recommendations and solutions regarding complex issues.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. Education cannot be credited without documentation. TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience equivalent to GS 7 described above to meet the total experience requirements. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. Education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. Education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. Education cannot be credited without documentation. TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.
 I have none of the above.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-11:
Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-11 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: ability to apply knowledge of healthcare system guidelines and standards to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of programs; Administrative management to include Human Resources, contracting, procurement, space, and capital equipment management; skilled in oral and written communication in order to prepare and present recommendations and solutions regarding complex issues; knowledge of basic budget and accounting principles and techniques; knowledge of analytical tools and techniques used to gather, analyze and report and/or present information in a cohesive and relevant format (e.g., flowcharts, decision trees, demographic analysis, forecasting and feasibility or needs assessment studies; reports, proposals, charts, graphs, workload trends and resource needs).
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M, if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Education must have been obtained in an accredited college, or university. Education cannot be credited without documentation. TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate level education (beyond a master's degree) and specialized experience equivalent to the GS 9 as described above to meet total experience requirements. (Only education in excess of a masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree is credible. ) I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Education must have been obtained in an accredited college, or university. Education cannot be credited without documentation. TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.
 I have none of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙