Position Title
Correspondence Examination Technician
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13069509O-TSN-0503-5T7
Open Period
Sep 30, 2026 to Oct 06, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and: you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action). For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No
2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and: you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action). For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No
3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".) If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No
4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and: you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent? If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action). For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1 .
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 5
 6
 7
2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement? You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None
3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019). You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process. Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal
5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.
6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal
7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID) ?
8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.
9.
What is your current position title?
10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 Navigating USAJOBS
 Writing Your Federal Resume
 Interviewing Techniques
 Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 None of the above
11.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position: Employer Name & Job Title, Employment ( MM/DD/YYYY ) start and end date or present, Number of hours worked per week Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications. Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.
 Yes
 No
12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected. FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE) .
 Yes
 No
SAMPLE EXTERNAL FOR TA&E ONLY
.
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.
.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-5 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that is related to the work of the position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance Examples of experience qualifying as specialized include: preparing, receiving, reviewing, and verifying documents, processing transactions; maintaining office records; and locating and compiling data or information from files and other data sources; contacting customers through correspondence or telephone to obtain information. OR Bachelor's degree or four years of education above high school in any field of study from an accredited college or university. OR A combination of education and experience equivalent to that described above. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-6 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance. Examples of qualifying experience include: preparing, receiving, reviewing, and verifying documents; processing transactions; maintaining office records; and locating and compiling data or information from files and other data sources; processing a variety of tax returns and reports; examining tax returns and supporting documents for current and prior year and amended returns; and contacting customers through correspondence or telephone to obtain information, explain liability, and encourage compliance; Experience with AIMS, IDRS, business, fiduciary, and estate tax; experience with Privacy Act, disclosure regulations, and Power of Attorney; Experience with other agency procedures related to tax processing (SSA, Federal Reserve Bank, Disbursing Office, State Employment Offices, and other private financial institutions). SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-7 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance. Examples of qualifying experience include: Processing a variety of tax returns and reports; ensuring that all required identification, schedules, income tax deposits, or other required information is available; contacting customers through correspondence or telephone to obtain information, explain liability, and encourage compliance; Experience with tax rules, regulations, and procedures as well as the penalty and interest rate computations. This includes cases involving restricted interest, minimum and alternative minimum tax, income averaging, and tax preference items; Experience with a broad range of filing requirements and offsets; experience with AIMS, IDRS, service center processing procedures, master file transaction codes, procedures for effecting account corrections and adjustments; Experience with business, fiduciary, and estate tax; experience with procedures and criteria relating to statute protection and expiration including Restricted Waivers of Consent and controlling of the statute.
1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-5 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that is related to the work of the position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance Examples of experience qualifying as specialized include: preparing, receiving, reviewing, and verifying documents, processing transactions; maintaining office records; and locating and compiling data or information from files and other data sources; contacting customers through correspondence or telephone to obtain information. OR Bachelor's degree or four years of education above high school in any field of study from an accredited college or university. OR A combination of education and experience equivalent to that described above. GS-5 Level: Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience.
 I have a Bachelors degree or four (4) years of progressive education above high school.
 I have a combination or education and specialized experience equivalent to one year of specialized experience
 None of the above
2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-6 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance. Examples of qualifying experience include: preparing, receiving, reviewing, and verifying documents; processing transactions; maintaining office records; and locating and compiling data or information from files and other data sources; processing a variety of tax returns and reports; examining tax returns and supporting documents for current and prior year and amended returns; and contacting customers through correspondence or telephone to obtain information, explain liability, and encourage compliance; Experience with AIMS, IDRS, business, fiduciary, and estate tax; experience with Privacy Act, disclosure regulations, and Power of Attorney; Experience with other agency procedures related to tax processing (SSA, Federal Reserve Bank, Disbursing Office, State Employment Offices, and other private financial institutions). GS-6 Level : Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience.
3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-7 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that is related to the work of this position and has provided you with the competencies required for successful job performance. Examples of qualifying experience include: Processing a variety of tax returns and reports; ensuring that all required identification, schedules, income tax deposits, or other required information is available; contacting customers through correspondence or telephone to obtain information, explain liability, and encourage compliance; Experience with tax rules, regulations, and procedures as well as the penalty and interest rate computations. This includes cases involving restricted interest, minimum and alternative minimum tax, income averaging, and tax preference items; Experience with a broad range of filing requirements and offsets; experience with AIMS, IDRS, service center processing procedures, master file transaction codes, procedures for effecting account corrections and adjustments; Experience with business, fiduciary, and estate tax; experience with procedures and criteria relating to statute protection and expiration including Restricted Waivers of Consent and controlling of the statute. GS-7 Level: Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience.
4.
Which of the following work experiences have you had?
 Actively participated in unit meeting discussions
 Recorded minutes at unit meetings
 Requested additional work when time available
 Recommended solutions to problems within my work unit or team
 Participated in the Employee Suggestion Program (ESP)
 Participated in a committee (e.g., Focus group, Employee Recognition, Technical team/group
 Led a cross functional team
 Worked with others outside of my team to complete assignments.
 None of the above
5.
Which of the following describes your training or teaching experience?
 Completed Certified Instructor Training Course (CITC)
 Served as an On-the-Job Instructor (OJI)
 Provided one-on-one assistance to a co-worker
 Presented at a lunch-and-learn
 Taught a class at a unit meeting
 Taught a class for another team or department
 Taught a Continuing Professional Education (CPE) course
 None of the above
6.
With which of the following situations do you have experience?
 Listened to an argumentative taxpayer explain their perspective and helped them understand their issue.
 Assisted a taxpayer to resolve a work related problem.
 Assisted a taxpayer who has experienced a hardship (e.g., financial, medical).
 Handled a taxpayer case dealing with a natural disaster.
 Listened to an argumentative person explain their perspective and helped them understand the issue.
 Assisted others to resolve a work related issue
 None of the above
7.
Which of the following transaction or credit reference codes (TC) have you used when researching a tax case?
 TC 150
 CRN 878, CRN 895, CRN 889
 TC 290, TC 29X or TC 300, TC 30X
 TC 922
 TC 640, TC 660 or TC 670
 TC 420
 TC 971
 CRN 886, CRN 888
 None of the above
8.
Which of the following Integrated Data Retrieval Systems (IDRS) freeze codes have you referenced when researching a tax case?
 L Freeze
 A Freeze
 O Freeze
 Z Freeze
 V Freeze
 W Freeze
 S Freeze
 None of the above
9.
Which of the following systems have you used in your research?
 Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS)
 Servicewide Electronic Research Program (SERP)
 Desktop Integration/Accounts Management System (DI/AMS)
 Report Generation Software (RGS)
 Compliance Exam Automation System (CEAS)
 Correspondence Imaging System (CIS)
 Integrated and Automated Technology (IAT)
 None of the above
10.
With which of the following leadership responsibilities do you have experience?
 Used Embedded Quality Review System (EQRS)
 Reviewed Single Entry Time Reporting (SETR) Input
 Conducted informal spot reviews of work assignments
 Conducted performance evaluations
 Served as lead
 Served as acting lead
 Served as manager
 Served as acting manager
 None of the above
11.
Which of the following describes your experience developing training materials?
 Revised existing material for training
 Created local teaching materials
 Developed a test to evaluate the level of comprehension of training provided
 Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) in developing training materials
 None of the above
12.
With which of the following types of written communication do you have experience?
 Written letters or notices to taxpayers
 Written open paragraphs in existing letters or notices
 Written approved job aids
 Written training material or lesson plans
 Written technical emails to management
 Documented tax payers accounts
 None of the above
13.
Which of the following best describes your experience making decisions?
 Relied on my lead or manager to make the decision
 Considered available information and then independently made a decision
 Consulted with coworkers and then made a decision
 Consulted with my lead or manager and then made a decision
 Researched the issue and then made a decision
 None of the above
14.
With which of the following forms do you have experience reviewing for accuracy?
 1120 Series
 94X Series
 Computer Paragraph (CP) 2000
 1041
 1040 Series
 Extensions
 Other CP Notices
 Letters or Notices
 None of the above
15.
Which best describes your technique to research a solution to a technical issue?
 Ask a manager or lead
 Use a job aid
 Use the Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
 Ask a co-worker
 None of the above
16.
Which of the following best describes how you resolved a technical issue or problem?
 Brought the problem to my manager/leads attention.
 Developed a solution with the assistance of coworkers.
 Developed a solution independently.
 Researched the problem and developed multiple solutions.
 None of the above
17.
Which of the following describe your experience communicating with external customers?
 Phone
 Written letters or notices
 Face-to-face
 None of the above
18.
Which of the following best describes how you ensure the quality of work?
 Rely on my lead or manager to review my work
 Review my work at the end of each day
 Review my work as it is completed
 Assigned to review my co-workers work
 None of the above
19.
Which best describes your experience managing your inventory?
 Completed work as it was received (first-in/first-out)
 Completed work based on my individual priorities
 Completed my work according to shifting team priorities
 Manager or lead prioritized my work
 Prioritized work for others in my team
 None of the above
20.
Which of the following best describes how you have handled multiple work tasks with competing deadlines?
 Do what I can and save the rest for the next day
 I request to work extra hours in order to complete the tasks
 Ask my manager or lead for additional resources to complete tasks
 None of the above
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
21.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified determination?
 Yes
 No
22.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
