Position Title
PHYSICAL THERAPY ASSISTANT
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-13068080-26-TM Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7
8


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Assessment 1
Please select the answer that best describes your experience and qualification for the position. We will evaluate your resume and responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Minimum Qualifications: Please select the best statement below that describes how you meet the education requirements. Individuals must meet at least one of the requirements below:
 Associate degree from an accredited community college, junior college, college or university in a physical therapy assistant education program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education; (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED) OR
 Graduate of foreign physical therapy assistant degree programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the National Physical Therapy Exam (NPTE) for PTAs.
 Graduate of military physical therapy assistant programs that meet the educational requirement and have successfully passed the NPTE for PTAs.
 My education is not reflected above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have a Current, full, active and unrestricted license as a PTA in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e. Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia.
Do you possess a license?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please provide the following information to your licensure:

Name on License:

State or Territory Where issued:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
For the GS-06
Physical Therapy Assistant, do you have one year of creditable experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05. Examples of experience include but not limited to the following: perform preliminary chart review including medical history and contraindications for treatment; treat patients through basic exercise, massage, gait and balance training and other therapeutic interventions; recommend changes in treatment based on changes in physical, mental and/or medical status of the patient; instruct, motivate and assist patients to learn and improve functional activities.
 Yes
 No


5.
For the GS-06 Physical Therapy Assistant, in addition to the basic requirements and experience above, does your resume demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?

(a)Knowledge of evidence based physical therapy practice.
(b)[Ability to perform] physical therapy data collection and use of objective measures in order to carry out patient plan of care.
(c)[Ability to modify treatment approaches, within the scope of the established treatment plans, to reflect patients' changing needs.
(d)Skill in promoting physical therapy services by providing training and interventions within the assigned areas.]
 Yes
 No


6.
For the GS-07

Physical Therapy Assistant, do you posses one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade GS-06? Experience includes but not limited to the following: perform chart review including medical history and contraindications for treatment; treat patients through skilled exercise, massage, gait and balance training and other therapeutic interventions; recommend changes in or modify treatment based on changes in physical, mental and/or medical status of the patient; instruct, motivate and assist patients to learn and improve functional activities; assist with setting discharge plans; assess progress in accordance with the plan of care for complex patient cases. (Must be fully demonstrated in resume)
 Yes
 No


7.
For the GS-07 Physical Therapist Assistant, In addition to the basic requirement, and experience above, does your resume demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities for this position?

(a)Ability to perform in depth chart review to implement treatment plans.
(b)Ability to independently use objective measures to assess progress, in accordance with the plan of care for complex patient cases.
(c)Knowledge of contemporary physical therapy practice.
(d)Ability to consult with the PT to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan.
 Yes
 No


8.
For the GS-08

Physical Therapy Assistant, Does your resume show one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade GS-07? Experience includes but not limited to the following: draw upon a broad base of practical and experiential knowledge in order to assist the PT in reaching pre-determined patient goals; works independently but still under the general direction of PTs; observe patients' ability to perform specified tasks in order to provide ongoing assessment of information on patients' physical and functional status; work with the physical therapy staff to assess progress, modify treatment and set discharge plan; provide clinical direction for PTA students; independently implement treatment plans; provide multifaceted physical therapy interventions, based on care plans.
 Yes
 No


9.
For the GS-08 Physical Therapy Assistant, in addition to the basic requirements, and the experience above, does your resume demonstrate the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities for the position?

(a)Ability to independently implement treatment plan using knowledge of techniques related to the patient's disability and needs.
(b)Ability to independently provide varied and multifaceted physical therapy interventions based on the established care plan (e.g., therapeutic exercise, balance, body mechanics, flexibility, strength, gait training, neuromotor development, physical agents, functional training, etc.).
(c)Knowledge of physical therapy data collection and assessment techniques in order to perform specific interventions and to monitor and capture progress of the patient/client.
(d)Ability to instruct patient on varied interventions to provide materials to enhance compliance with home programs.
(e)Ability to modify treatment techniques based on the learning needs and perceptions of the patient.
(f)Ability to identify critical changes (e.g. vital signs, pain, mobility and alertness) in patient conditions to determine their medical and functional status.
(g)Ability to work with PTs and other interdisciplinary healthcare team members to evaluate patient information for planning, modifying and coordinating treatment programs and discharge planning.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙