Position Title
Loan Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
316-LGY-13000464-26-WS-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Saint Petersburg, FL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Saint Paul, MN
 F. Cleveland, OH
 G. Houston, TX
 H. Roanoke, VA


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration, Loan Guaranty Services. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.

INSTRUCTIONS AOC: This vacancy is opened ONLY to Facility and eligible T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) employees.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Loan Specialist GS-1165-12.
 I am currently employed by the Veterans Benefits Administration, Loan Guaranty Service? This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service.
 I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 My status is not described in any of the options above and therefore I am ineligible because I am NOT in the Area of Consideration (AOC).


INSTRUCTIONS TIME-IN-GRADE: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In-Grade requirement.
Note: Not all eligibilities are required to meet Time-In-Grade. This does not apply to Non-Federal Applicants, or applicants applying for consideration under Non-Competitive Authorities (i.e.... "30% or more Disability", VRA, or "Persons with Disabilities - Schedule A", or under any other special hiring authority), if this does not apply to you, please select "C" for Not Applicable. If you are a current Federal employee, former Federal employee applying for reinstatement, or a current federal employee applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment you must meet time in grade.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). You must provide a copy of your most recent SF-50 that indicates proof of status, and shows Time in Grade (for example, you were a career or career-conditional employee) and identifies your position title, series, grade, step, salary, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit any SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time-in-grade.


2.
GS-12: I am a current Loan Guaranty Services or CTAP employee, do you have at least one (1) year (time-in-grade) at the GS-11 grade level?
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR): This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.

This position does have an IOR (Individual Occupational Requirement) that must be met in addition to the Time-in-Grade and regular Specialized Experience qualifications.  In order to qualify for this position, you must have experience listed below.


3.
IOR Education Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, real estate operations, statistics, or other fields related to the position, such as agriculture, agricultural economics, farm, livestock or ranch management, or rural sociology.

IOR Specialized Experience Experience that demonstrated competence in agricultural, commercial, realty, or other types of loans. Experience may have been gained in such work as reviewing and passing upon applications for agricultural, commercial, bank or mortgage loans; servicing a loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association; performing financial analysis of commercial concerns for investment purposes; appraising real estate to determine property valuation; or similar work.

 I have one (1) year specialized experience as required by the individual occupational requirement for the position.
 I have an undergraduate an graduate education as required by the individual occupational requirement for the position.
 My experience and /or education is not described above.


INSTRUCTIONS MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.

DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


4.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experienceand/or education for the GS-1165-12 Loan Specialist.

Specialized Experience:
For the GS-12 you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-11 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized Experience is defined as experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-11 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as demonstrating a thorough knowledge and expertise in all phases of the loan guaranty program. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Experience demonstrating a competence in agricultural, commercial, realty, or other types of loans.
Experience such as reviewing and passing along applications for agricultural, commercial, bank or mortgage loans.
Experience servicing a loan portfolio of a bank or other loan association.
Experience performing financial analysis of commercial concerns for investment purposes.
Experience appraising real estate to determine property valuation, or similar work.
There is no education substitution for this grade level.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience and/or education equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience and eduction is not described above.


INSTRUCTIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙