Position Title
Library Technician
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13038975 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the Library Assistant, 1411 position, which of the following do you possess?
 I have one year of progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position.
 I have at least two (2) years of education above high school.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 I have no experience with the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have providing customer service support?
 I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 1-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have working with technology to include troubleshooting minor hardware and software issues (e.g., assisting customers with password resets; referring to troubleshooting guides and following recommended steps based on identified issue; following digital prompts on copier or printer; or restarting computer to reset software issues, when appropriate)?
 I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 1-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above


4.
How many years of experience do you have working within a library environment?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have no experience as described above


5.
How many years of experience do you have working with point of sale (POS) systems? 
 I have 3+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 1-3 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙