Position Title
Attorney Advisor (General)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12890164-26-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Eloy Immigration Court, Eloy, AZ
 AB. Florence Immigration Court, Florence, AZ
 AW. Phoenix Immigration Court, Phoenix, AZ
 AX. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 AY. Adelanto Immigration Court, Adelanto, CA
 AZ. Concord Immigration Court, Concord, CA
 BA. Imperial Immigration Court, Imperial, CA
 BB. Los Angeles Immigration Court (N. Los Angeles Street) / West Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 BC. Sacramento Immigration Court, Sacramento, CA
 BD. Otay Mesa Immigration Court, San Diego, CA
 BE. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego County, CA
 BF. San Francisco SPC Immigration Court, San Francisco, CA
 BG. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 BH. Los Angeles Immigration Court (Van Nuys Blvd), Van Nuys, CA
 BI. Aurora Immigration Court, Aurora, CO
 BJ. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 BK. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford, CT
 BL. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 BM. Miami Krome (Detained) Immigration Court, Miami Gardens, FL
 BN. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 BO. Atlanta Immigration Court (Ted Turner Drive), Atlanta, GA
 BP. Atlanta Immigration Court (W. Peachtree Street), Atlanta, GA
 BQ. Stewart Immigration Court, Lumpkin, GA
 BR. Honolulu Immigration Court, Honolulu, HI
 BS. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 BT. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 B. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 C. LaSalle Immigration Court, Jena, LA
 D. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 E. Oakdale Immigration Court, Oakdale, LA
 F. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 G. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 H. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 I. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 J. Detroit Immigration Court, Detroit, MI
 K. Fort Snelling Immigration Court, Fort Snelling, MN
 L. Kansas City Immigration Court, Kansas City, MO
 M. Omaha Immigration Court, Omaha, NE
 N. Las Vegas Immigration Court, Las Vegas, NV
 O. Elizabeth Immigration Court, Elizabeth, NJ
 P. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 Q. Otero Immigration Court, Chaparral, NM
 R. Batavia Immigration Court, Batavia, NY
 S. Buffalo Immigration Court, Buffalo, NY
 T. Ulster Immigration Court, Napanoch, NY
 U. New York Immigration Court (Broadway)/ (Federal Plaza) / (Varick), New York, NY
 V. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 W. Saipan Immigration Court, Saipan, Mariana Island, MP
 X. Cleveland Immigration Court, Cleveland, OH
 Y. Portland Immigration Court, Portland, OR
 Z. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 AA. Guaynabo (San Juan) Immigration Court, Guaynabo, PR
 AC. Memphis Immigration Court, Memphis, TN
 AD. Conroe Immigration Court, Conroe, TX
 AE. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas County, TX
 AF. El Paso Immigration Court/ El Paso SPC Immigration Court, El Paso County, TX
 AG. Fort Worth IAC Immigration Court, Fort Worth, TX
 AH. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 AI. Houston Immigration Court (Jefferson Street), Houston, TX
 AJ. Houston Immigration Court (Greenspoint Park), Houston, TX
 AK. Houston Immigration Court (South Gessner Road), Houston, TX
 AL. Laredo Immigration Court, Laredo, TX
 AM. Port Isabel Immigration Court, Los Fresnos, TX
 AN. Pearsall Immigration Court, Pearsall, TX
 AO. San Antonio Immigration Court, San Antonio, TX
 AP. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, West Valley City, UT
 AQ. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 AR. Falls Church IAC Immigration Court, Falls Church, VA
 AS. Richmond IAC Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 AT. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA
 AU. Seattle Immigration Court, Seattle, WA
 AV. Tacoma Immigration Court, Tacoma, WA


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?

 Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do NOT possess this education.


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia).



3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?
 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar.


4.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA).



5.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-12 position.
 Yes, I have 1 full year (12 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: (1) Monitoring and examining formal filings for legal sufficiency and reviewing submissions from party representatives to ensure procedural requirements are met; (2) Developing and preparing interpretive and administrative documents under relevant statutes and regulations; and (3) Demonstrating a commitment to personal and organizational success.
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙