Position Title
Nursing Assistant- Acute care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13043614-26-GJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS- Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship - Citizen of the United States.
(Non-citizens may be appointed only when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3g.)
Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: EXPERIENCE, OR EDUCATION, OR TRAINING -
Applicants must meet one of the Nursing Assistant series occupational requirements below. Select the response that best describes your education and/or combination of education and experience for the position.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


3.
Please provide the following if you are qualified based on education and training. If you are qualified based on experience, indicate N/A.
NOTE: A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.
Name of Institution or Training Program
City and State
Credential or Level of Education Attained (Diploma, Certificate, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.)
Duration of Educational Program
Month and Year Degree or Certificate Completed and/or Conferred (if applicable)
Relevant Coursework Completed Related to the Nursing Assistant Occupation
Length of Training Program (if applicable)



For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
GS-5 Nursing Assistant-
To qualify at the GS-5 level you must meet the experience or education requirements and the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care to patients or residents with physical and behavioral problems in a hospital, long-term care, or outpatient setting under the direction of a Registered Nurse or Licensed Vocational/Practical Nurse.
Ability to communicate orally with patients, residents, families, interdisciplinary team members, and other personnel. This includes serving as a preceptor to new Nursing Assistants by helping coordinate their orientation and overseeing or assessing their practical experience in a clinical setting.
Ability to recognize and react to emergent patient or resident care situations and intervene while waiting for assistance. Examples include recognizing the need for basic life support, controlling bleeding, and assisting during behavioral crises.

 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Verification Statement - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your application not being considered for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information provided in this questionnaire is true, accurate, and submitted in good faith. I understand that making an intentional false statement, committing deception or fraud in this application or its supporting documentation, or providing false information during any part of the examination or hiring process may result in fines or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). I further understand that such actions may result in the cancellation of my eligibility, denial of appointment, removal from Federal service, or debarment in accordance with 5 C.F.R. part 731.
I understand that all information I provide may be subject to investigation, and that responding "No," or failing to provide a response to this certification, will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


SF-50 Reminder- Current permanent federal employees must submit an SF-50 issued within the past 12 months that clearly shows current, permanent federal status. Examples of acceptable SF-50s include : General Adjustment / Cost of Living Increase Within-Grade Increase at the Highest Grade Held Promotion SF-50 issued at the highest grade held within the past year The following SF-50s are not acceptable because they do not verify eligibility: Cash Award SF-50s Benefit changes SF-50s Time off Awards SF-50s Please check your electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. Human Resources will not contact you for additional documentation. You may upload more than one SF-50. All current, permanent federal employee applicants must ensure that they include at least one SF-50 showing current, permanent federal employment status within the past 12 months.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙