Position Title
Teacher (Health Care Grades 6-12)
Agency
Department of War Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X265144646453MPEXT Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) Civilian Employees

Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. (Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1"); OR

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA). You must submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflecting current DoDEA Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current DoWEA employee as described in one of the categories above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of War, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Excepted Service Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) Employee

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) civilian employee serving in the excepted service?

• You must submit a copy of your most recent SF50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2".
 Yes
 No


4.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Teacher, Health Care (Grades 6-12) position with Department of War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Teacher, Health Care (Grades 6-12) in the Federal Service.

 I have a Bachelor's degree. The course work must have been completed at or accepted by a regionally accredited U.S. college or university. A state OR DoWEA professional teacher certificate in any secondary area (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted to verify this response.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Teacher, Health Care (Grades 6-12) in the Federal Service.

 I have a current valid license as a Registered Nurse. (NOTE: License must be submitted to verify this response.)
 I do not possess the License described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Teacher, Health Care (Grades 6-12) in the Federal Service.

 I have at least a minimum of 3 years of experience at a level that demonstrates instruction or supervision of employees in a health care field.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙