Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
318-26-AJ-13000417-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/ former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-9 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


This section includes questions about your qualifications for the Support Services Specialist GS-0342 position. This job series has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR). Please review your response for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Your response will be subject to verification.


3.
The Support Services Specialist has an Individual Occupational Requirement: From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11. You must have the following Specialized experience or Education is defined as:
Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.
Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization.
Office management experience included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.
Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to ensure the efficient operation of an organization.
Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
OR, 

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education: For GS-11: 3 years or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled.

OR, 

Combination: Applicants may also combine graduate level education and specialized experience to qualify for the position. If you have some, but not all, of the graduate education AND specialized experience described above, you may still qualify by combining the amount of creditable graduate level education and experience that you do have. NOTE: Graduate level education must be in one of the following majors/field of study -public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position (Support Services Specialist) to be filled.


 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent as outlined in the announcement to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade, GS-09 or other equivalent pay systems Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures. Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization. Office management experience included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc. Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to ensure the efficient operation of an organization. Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
 I have a Ph. D or equivalent graduate degree or three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree from an accredited college or university. NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in item A above and I have less than the full amount of education described in item B above, however, combining my experience and education equals 100% of the required qualifications.
 My education and/or experience are not described in items A, B or C above; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


4.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as:
Experience developing and interpreting administrative policies and requirements and reviewing the work of other team members.
Experience assisting with any facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects; and analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs.
Experience with the renovation of existing office space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, and/or minor construction, etc. 
Experience administering government regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, and/or security standards which can be gained through such activities as conducting safety and/or security inspections, assisting or monitoring a safety and/or security program, and/or identifying and/or resolving safety and/or security deficiencies.
Experience analyzing use of space and facilities, safety and/or security inspections, and/or minor construction budgets, etc. and advising management accordingly.
Experience in property management, inventory of supplies and/or equipment, procurement of supplies and/or equipment, and/or vehicle management, etc.
Experience in administration and management of an identity card program, to include, cardstock inventory management, card issuance, administrative oversight of role-holders, and issuing cards, as necessary.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service
 I have earned a masters or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education that totals 100% of the requirement.
 I have neither one year of specialized experience as described nor education that can be substituted for it; therefore, I am NOT eligible to qualify at the GS-11 level.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this occupational questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙