Position Title
Registered Nurse - OCA
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12876796-26-AW-OCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Dec 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to accept an Intermittent appointment? Intermittent employment is defined as non-fulltime employment in which employees serve under an excepted or competitive service appointment without a regularly scheduled tour of duty. A position with an intermittent work schedule is sporadic and unpredictable so that a tour of duty cannot be regularly scheduled in advance.
 Yes
 No


6.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


8.
Please select any all all shifts you would accept.
 A. Day Shift M-F
 B. Mid Shift M-F
 C. Night Shift M-F
 D. Float
 E. Compressed
 F. Weekends
 G. Varied schedules
 H. Rotating schedules


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Detroit, MI
 B. Pontiac, MI
 C. Southfield, MI
 D. Trenton, MI


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Area(s) of Interest
Please select which nursing service(s) and area(s) you are interested in applying for.


1.
Please select which area of Associate Director, Patient Care service you would like to be considered for. If none, please select None of the Above.
 A. Cardiac Catheterization
 B. Gastrointestinal Specialty
 C. Outpatient
 D. None of the Above


2.
Please select which area of Nursing, Acute Care service you would like to be considered for. If none, please select None of the Above.
 A. Inpatient
 B. Progressive Care
 C. Outpatient
 D. None of the Above


3.
Please select which area of Nursing, Perioperative service you would like to be considered for. If none, please select None of the Above.
 A. Cardiac Catheterization
 B. Dialysis
 C. Gastrointestinal Specialty
 D. Interventional Radiology
 E. Operating Room
 F. PACU
 G. Outpatient Primary Care (PACT)
 H. Inpatient
 I. Outpatient
 J. None of the Above


4.
Please select which area of Nursing, Ambulatory Care service you would like to be considered for. If none, please select None of the Above.
 A. Oncology/Chemotherapy
 B. Pain Management
 C. Outpatient Primary Care (PACT)
 D. Outpatient Women's Health Primary Care (PACT)
 E. Spinal Care Injury
 F. Women's Health Clinic
 G. Outpatient
 H. None of the Above


5.
Please select which of the following areas you would like to be considered for. If none, please select None of the Above.
 A. Assistant Director
 B. Associate Director, Operations
 C. Community Care
 D. Connected Care
 E. Emergency Medicine
 F. Executive Director
 G. Geriatrics and Extended Care
 H. Health Administration
 I. Health Informatics
 J. Nursing, Education
 K. Nursing, Geriatrics and Extended Care
 L. Nursing, Mental Health (Domiciliary)
 M. Nursing, Specialty
 N. Primary Care
 O. Quality and Patient Safety
 P. Safety and Emergency Management
 Q. Social Work
 R. Sterile Processing
 S. None of the Above


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙