Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Finance
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12931536-26-LR Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Specialized Experience, Education, or Combination : This section includes questions about the Specialized Experience, education, or combination for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the Specialized Experience for Supervisory Accountant, GS-0510-13. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, Specialized Experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Read all responses before making your selection. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. If using education to qualify, you MUST submit an official or unofficial transcript. {remove if education requirement or substitution is not applicable to the series} From the responses below, select ONE response that best describes how you met the basic requirements for this position. Note: Experience/Education MUST be substantiated in your resume or transcripts. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
The Individual Occupational Requirement required for the Series Occupational Series is as follows:  A. Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
OR
Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
List any Individual Occupational Requirement listed in the OPM qualification standard for this job series.
Do you possess the Individual Occupational Requirement for this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one-year Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level? Specialized
Experience is defined as
1. ability to independently validate and analyze accounting data (such as general ledger accounts, accounting transactions, and trial balances and other financial statements)
2. reconcile accounts and interpret and prepare financial reports.
3. Review budget authority and understand general ledger impacts. 
4. Experience in training or leading others (prior supervisory experience not required)
 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
Select the best answer for each question based on your job knowledge and experience. There is only one correct answer per question. Provide an answer to every question.


1.
Question 1 :You are reviewing financial data and you identify a discrepancy between two reports that should reconcile. The discrepancy impacts the accuracy of the final report. What is your next step?
 Proceed with the report to meet the deadline and address the issue later
 Investigate the discrepancy, identify the cause, and correct the data before finalizing the report
 Remove the discrepancy from the report without further review
 Submit the report and note the issue without taking further action


2.
Question 2: A financial report shows an unexpected variance between projected and actual expenditures. What is the most appropriate action?
 Adjust the projection to match actual expenditures
 Investigate the variance, identify the cause, and document any required corrections
 Ignore the variance if it falls within an acceptable threshold
 Report the variance without further analysis


3.
Question 3: You identify a control weakness during a routine review that could result in inaccurate financial reporting. What should you do?
 Document the issue and address it during the next scheduled review
 Ignore the issue if no errors have occurred yet
 Report the issue, recommend corrective actions, and monitor implementation
 Assign the issue to a team member without follow-up


4.
Question 4: You are applying financial policies to a complex transaction and find that existing guidance is unclear. What is the most appropriate course of action?
 Apply the policy based on your best judgment without documentation
 Delay the transaction indefinitely
 Seek clarification, document your rationale, and ensure the application aligns with policy intent
 Process the transaction without applying the policy


5.
Question 5: You are responsible for preparing a financial report with a strict deadline. You discover incomplete data shortly before submission. What is your next step?
 Submit the report as-is to meet the deadline
 Delay submission without notifying stakeholders
 Communicate the issue, take steps to resolve it, and ensure the final report is accurate
 Estimate the missing data and proceed


6.
Question 6: What event that affects or is of interest to the organization and is processed by it information system as a unit of work?
 Accounting
 Maintenance
 Transaction
 Operating


7.
Question 7: What logical and relevant characteristic of an entity about which the organization captures?
 Database
 Data dictionary
 Transaction
 Attribute


8.
Question 8: What Value of information would you use is defined by this: must possess relevance, accuracy, completeness, summarization, and timeliness?
 Performance
 Empathy
 Correlation
 Reliability


9.
Question 9: What system integrates ALL aspects of an organization's activities into one system?
 Database
 Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
 Computer – Integrated Manufacturing
 Service-Oriented Architecture


10.
Question 10 : What __________fall into two general groups: external and internal. External includes creditors, vendors and regulatory agencies. Internal includes management at every level of the organization, functional, and operations personnel.
 Database Administrators
 Systems Administration
 Gate Keepers
 End Users


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙