Position Title
Data Scientist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13052130-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. La Jolla, CA
 B. Miami, FL
 C. Silver Spring, MD
 D. Woods Hole, MA
 E. Gulfport, MS
 F. Seattle, WA


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Which of the following statements accurately describes the relationship between Open Data and FAIR Data?

 Data must be completely public and free for anyone to use to be considered FAIR.
 All Open Data automatically meets all FAIR requirements without any extra work.
 Data can be FAIR even if it is not fully "Open" (e.g., restricted medical data that is well-documented and shareable under specific legal conditions).
 FAIR principles only apply to commercial software, while Open Data only applies to universities.


2.
A researcher wants to practice Open Science by making sure other scientists can read their published research papers without being blocked by expensive journal subscription fees or paywalls. What is this practice called?

 Open Access Publishing
 Open Source Coding
 Open Peer Review
 Citizen Science


3.
To make a newly collected dataset Interoperable (the "I" in FAIR), which of the following actions should a data scientist take?

 Save the data in a highly secretive, custom file format that only their personal computer can open.
 Delete all descriptions of what the columns mean to save file space.
 Use community-accepted standards, common file formats (like CSV or JSON), and widely recognized vocabulary/ontologies to describe the data.
 Lock the data with a password and never share the key.


4.
Why is software such as R, Python, or SQL essential for survey data analysis?

 It enables reproducible statistical analyses, database queries, and data visualization.
 It automatically identifies species.
 It replaces the need for data QA/QC.
 It is required for vessel navigation


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Data Science Series, 1560, because I have:

 Degree: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position.
 Combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Data Science Series 1560.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Data Scientist, ZP-1560-2 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-1) or GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in the application of solutions to automate the processing of data; and Modifying software using Python, R or SQL.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I meet the criteria for a superior academic achievement demonstrated by a related bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with one of the following: A grade point average (GPA) of 2.9 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study; A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. Note: It is your responsibility to ensure your application clearly states how you meet one of these provisions. You must attach a copy of your transcripts showing completed degree and, if applicable, proof of national Scholastic Honor Society membership.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙