Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-13025078-26-NN Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Accountant position with the Northeast Ohio VA Healthcare System. Please respond to the questions below.


1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience in order to determine if you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this occupational series. Select the response that best describes your qualifications for this position. Ensure your resume supports your response that you select.

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
 I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: (1) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or (3)Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work at the GS-09 level or equivalent in the Federal Service. Ensure your resume supports the response you select.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would be experience that provided you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and which is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include: Assisting with monitoring accounting systems; knowledge of financial policies; knowledge of professional concepts and methodologies in accounting; assisting with providing guidance to accounting technicians in the resolution of moderate problems; assisting with preparing reports, automated system changes, and/or standard operation procedures related to financial management.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree related to the work of the position, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or J.D., if related to the work of this position. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I possess a combination of qualifying specialized experience and education as described above to qualify at the GS-9 level for an Accountant. You must possess 6 months of specialized experience equivalent to GS-7 and 1 year of graduate level education. The applicant meets 50 percent of the required experience but none of the required education, since you do not have any graduate study beyond that which is required for GS-7. Therefore, you meet only 50 percent of the total requirement and are not qualified for the position (The applicant's first year of graduate study is not qualifying for GS-9). Transcripts must be submitted
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


3.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for GS-11 Accountant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would be experience that provided you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and which is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include: Monitoring accounting systems covering operations and expenses for payroll, travel, transportation, supplies, rents, services, inventory, or commercial accounts; participating in decision-making sessions and advising a number of program managers on regulatory requirements, financial policies, the interpretation of data, and program improvements through analysis of program operations, monthly reports, and special systems edits.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related to the work of the position. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I possess a combination of qualifying specialized experience and education as described above to qualify at the GS-11 level. You have 9 months of specialized experience equivalent to GS-9 and 2 1/2 years of creditable graduate level education in music. You meet 75 percent of the required experience and 50 percent of the required education, i.e., you have 1/2 year of graduate study beyond that required for GS-9. Therefore, you exceed the total requirement and are qualified for the position (Your first 2 years of graduate study are not qualifying for GS-11. (Transcripts must be submitted).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


4.
Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level in the Federal service? Examples of specialized experience would be experience that provided you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and which is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include: implementing, monitoring, or maintaining internal control systems to ensure protection against fraud, waste, and mismanagement; consulting or advising others on financial matters; determining compliance with accounting and auditing requirements; serving as a primary point of contact for a specific subject area; explaining or providing guidance on laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or clients; using of prescribed formulas, schedules, tables, or procedures to calculate or check values or numbers; notifying individuals or offices in writing of decisions, problems, or further actions needed; initiating and maintaining contacts with individuals outside the organization; coordinating of the activities of individuals inside or outside of the organization; responding to requests or resolving complaints from customers; keeping abreast of latest technology, information, research, etc., to maintain knowledge in field of expertise (for example, reads trade journals, participates in professional/technical associations).

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙