Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Entry Level) - Northeast Area Field Office
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
IA-26-145A-13026941-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Postal Service Office of Inspector General (USPS OIG), United States Postal Service (USPS), United Sates Postal Inspection Service (USPIS), or Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) career employee?  If yes, please submit a copy of your current PS-50 form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Internal Employees Only

This announcement is open internally to current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, and PRC career employees and Student Cooperatives only.

All others are ineligible for this announcement and must apply to announcement #: 13026940

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the eligibility requirement for this position.

Reach out to your HR Analyst or submit an HR Help Desk ticket for assistance.
 I am a current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employee and will submit my PS50 with my application.
 I am not a current USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employee.


2.
Education Requirement (1811 Occupational Series)


This position requires a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university prior to the effective date of appointment, and you will be asked to provide proof of receipt.

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirement for this position.


 I currently have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and will submit transcripts/proof of receipt when requested during the hiring process.
 I am currently enrolled and will obtain a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and will submit transcripts/proof of receipt when requested during the hiring process.
 I do not meet the education requirement listed on this announcement.


3.
Law Enforcement Agency Experience Requirement


This position requires at least two (2) years of experience with a law enforcement agency.

Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirement for this position.


 I have two (2) years of experience with a law enforcement agency. My resume will reflect when and where I gained this experience.
 I do not have two (2) years of experience with a law enforcement agency.


4.
Demonstrated Potential Experience Requirement


This position requires demonstrated potential to conduct Federal criminal, civil, and administrative investigations.

Please choose the option that best describes your experience:

 I have education, training, or related experience that shows potential to perform Federal criminal, civil, and administrative investigative work, but I have not yet performed these duties independently. My resume will reflect when and where I have gained this experience.
 I have performed some investigative tasks with supervision or guidance, demonstrating developing potential in Federal criminal, civil, or administrative investigations. My resume will reflect when and where I have gained this experience.
 I have independently performed Federal criminal, civil, or administrative investigative tasks. My resume will reflect when and where I have gained this experience.
 I do not have education, training, or experience that demonstrates potential to perform Federal criminal, civil, or administrative investigative work.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Performance Appraisal Requirement

This position requires at least an acceptable or satisfactory rating of "met expectation" on your most recent performance appraisal (FY 2025).

Did you receive at least an acceptable or satisfactory rating on your most recent performance appraisal?

Documentation Requirement Options:
You must submit copy of your most recent performance appraisal (FY 2025).
Student Cooperatives must submit a management recommendation letter from current supervisor.
If a performance appraisal is not available, you must submit a written statement stating the reason it is not available.
 Yes
 No


6.
Certification of Accuracy

Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.

Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙