Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
341-26-BL-13022135-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Management Analyst, GS-09/11 grade levels, with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Salt Lake City, UT Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Salt Lake City, UT VBA Regional Office or VBA CTAP eligible?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VBA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
GS-9: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your Time-In-Grade:
 I have held GS-7 or higher grade.
 No, I have not held a GS-7 or higher grade.


3.
GS-11: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your Time-In-Grade:
 I have held a GS-9 or higher grade.
 No, I have not held a GS-9 or higher grade.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE:  You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.in Federal Service.


4.
GS-9 is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position(s), and that is typically IN OR RELATED TO the work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as work that involves (1) Uses computer systems or applications to collect, compile, and organizes information; (2) Provides technical advice in subject matter area to others and; (3) Analyze or interpret data or other information.
OR
Applicants may substitute education for the experience required for the GS-11 level. Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading 
to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Such education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work. OR
Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at the GS-11 level:  Equivalent combinations of specialized experience and PH.D. graduate education. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a masters or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year.
 My education and/or experience is not described above.


5.
GS-11 is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position(s), and that is typically IN OR RELATED TO the work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as work that involves (1) Evaluating programs and their functions; (2) Recommending improvements in procedures, work methods, and/or organizations and; (3) Implementing changes to programs/business lines.

Applicants may substitute education for the experience required for the GS-11 level. Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading 
to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Such education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work. OR Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at the GS-11 level:
Equivalent combinations of specialized experience and PH.D. graduate education. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctorate degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M. if related.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as describe in "B" which totals at least one year.
 My education and/or experience is not described above.


Your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙