Position Title
Administrative Officer- Research
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12933577-26-EKO Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualification Requirements: Select the one statement below that best describes your current level of experience to meet the minimum requirements for this position. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this announcement for detailed information.


1.
For this Administrative Officer - Research GS-12 position, do you have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the Federal Service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform the duties this position? Specialized experience is experience where you were responsible for providing a variety of management services essential to the direction and operation of a clinical research program to include budget/fiscal management; human resources/personnel management; analyzing and evaluating data to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of a clinical research program; ensuring staff are kept updated on clinical research regulatory changes through informal/formal training. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must clearly indicate the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.

 Yes
 No


2.
For this Administrative Officer - Research GS-13 position, do you have: At least one (1) full year of specialized experience that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties the Administrative Officer - Research, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience serving as a supervisor, program manager, or team lead in clinical research setting, where you were responsible for or assisted with the administrative aspects of a medical research program, to include budgeting, regulatory compliance, program analysis, personnel management, and protocol management. Note: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hour worked per week.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
1.
Task: Oversees and coordinates a wide range of activities including fiscal management, human capital management, funding proposal preparation and submission, regulatory compliance, logistics and infrastructure
When simultaneously coordinating a funding proposal submission and quarterly fiscal close, the most effective oversight action is to:

 Prioritize whichever deadline is sooner and address the other task afterward.
 Ask each team to send status updates and only intervene if a delay is reported.
 Establish an integrated timeline with defined gate reviews, assign clear owners, and use a shared tracker to monitor fiscal close tasks, proposal components, approvals, and regulatory checks in parallel.
 Pause fiscal close activities to ensure the proposal is submitted on time.


2.
Task: Helps establish and facilitate research service policies and objectives necessary to conduct research effectively and within regulatory compliance
To establish a research service policy on data retention for human-subjects studies, the most appropriate initial step is to:

 Adopt the data retention practice used by a neighboring institution.
 Conduct a crosswalk of applicable federal, state, agency, and local requirements (e.g., IRB determinations, grant terms, records schedules) and draft a policy aligned to those authorities with a defined review/approval pathway.
 Ask each PI to propose a retention period that works best for their project.
 Implement the shortest retention period to reduce storage costs.


3.
Task: Coordinates research activities with other programs and maintains compliance with local, state, agency and federal requirements and regulations
When coordinating a multi-site project requiring both biosafety and human-subjects approvals, the best way to maintain compliance across programs is to:

 Obtain a single approval from the local committee and inform other sites to mirror it.
 Map all required approvals (e.g., IRB, IACUC/IBC as applicable, safety committees) across participating sites, harmonize timelines, confirm reliance agreements or inter-institutional arrangements, and track continuing review milestones.
 Ask the sponsor to waive additional approvals due to timeline constraints.
 Proceed after local approval and send notices to other sites post-initiation.


4.
Task: Oversees and coordinates the complete records management program
A key control to ensure a compliant research records management program is to:

 Allow each unit to design its own folder structure independently.
 Keep all records indefinitely to avoid accidental destruction.
 Implement documented file plans tied to approved records schedules, set standardized naming/metadata conventions, and apply disposition procedures with audit trails and access controls.
 Move confidential records to personal drives for easier access.


5.
Task: Directs the research records liaison in accordance with all policies, procedures, regulations and laws pertaining to records administration and retention that govern federal records
When directing a records liaison about the disposition of award files, the correct guidance is to:

 Destroy files after project closeout if there were no issues.
 Verify the applicable records schedule and retention period, confirm eligibility for disposition, document approvals, and ensure secure destruction or transfer per policy, including holds for audits or litigation.
 Archive everything into the shared drive to avoid errors.
 Email the files to the sponsor before deletion.


6.
Task: Utilizes a variety of databases and software platforms to review and report on research activity and program status as well as to operationalize progress toward goals
To report monthly progress toward research program goals using multiple systems, the most effective approach is:

 Export raw data from each system and send it unfiltered to leadership.
 Use whichever system has the most complete data and ignore the others.
 Define standardized metrics, reconcile and validate data across platforms, build automated dashboards, and annotate variances to present a cohesive, decision-ready report.
 Summarize anecdotal feedback from investigators instead of system reports.


7.
Task: Ensures that the office adheres to reporting requirements at all levels and develops status reports or response materials for the manager for higher level attention, review, or signature
When preparing a quarterly compliance report for executive signature, the critical step is to:

 Send the draft with placeholders to meet the deadline.
 Focus only on successes to present a positive image.
 Validate completeness against all required elements, verify source data, document methodology, and include risks/mitigations with an approval chain and record of concurrence prior to routing for signature.
 Reduce detail to one page to speed executive review.


8.
Task: Directs the personnel management program for research service
A foundational responsibility when directing the personnel management program is to:

 Hold monthly morale events and publish staff spotlights.
 Establish and maintain compliant staffing plans, position descriptions, recruitment strategies, onboarding processes, performance management cycles, and workforce metrics aligned to mission needs.
 Let PIs select staff informally to accelerate hiring.
 Defer all personnel matters to the sponsor to avoid conflicts.


9.
Task: Provides expert advice to managers, supervisors, and principal investigators on how to address their personnel needs
If a PI needs a specialized data manager mid-year, the most expert guidance is to:

 Reassign duties to the existing team to avoid hiring.
 Conduct a job analysis; confirm classification, funding source, and hiring authority; outline recruitment and onboarding steps; and advise on interim coverage, performance implications, and timelines.
 Ask the PI to contract a freelancer without review.
 Recommend hiring the candidate of the PI’s choice without competition.


10.
Task: Evaluates personnel, completes official performance appraisals, and recommends personnel for promotion, retention, separation, awards and/or disciplinary action
When completing an official appraisal, the most compliant and effective practice is to:

 Rate everyone as “Outstanding” to boost morale.
 Base ratings on informal feedback received via email.
 Consider only end-of-year deliverables, ignoring mid-year progress.
 Use documented standards, SMART goals, mid-cycle reviews, evidence-based achievements, and address conduct/performance separately to support fair ratings and any subsequent actions.


11.
Task: Assists with overall strategic leadership, planning, direction, and coordination of all activity within the program
To assist with strategic planning across the research program, the highest-value action is to:

 Create an annual calendar of events and trainings.
 Facilitate a strategy process linking mission, environmental scan, stakeholder input, resource constraints, regulatory factors, and measurable objectives with an implementation roadmap and KPIs.
 Circulate last year’s plan and ask for comments.
 Focus solely on equipment purchases to demonstrate progress.


12.
Task: Provides expert guidance to prospective, new, and established investigators on all matters covering research implementation, management, and regulatory review requirements
A prospective investigator asks how to start a study involving human subjects and biohazards. The best guidance is to:

 Submit the grant first and worry about compliance later.
 Seek local scientific review, then begin pilot work without approvals.
 Outline the full pathway: protocol development, required training, IRB submission (and reliance if multi-site), biosafety/IBC review, safety plans, data security, conflict of interest, and pre-award regulatory checks before any participant activities.
 Use a de-identified approach to bypass oversight.


13.
Task: Serves as a member of the Research & Development Committee (RDC) as well as its constituent subcommittees including the Subcommittee on Research Safety (SRS)
While serving on the RDC/SRS, your primary responsibility during protocol review is to:

 Check if the PI is well-known and trustworthy.
 Ensure the proposal aligns with departmental preferences.
 Evaluate safety, feasibility, regulatory completeness, risk controls, and resource implications; document determinations and required modifications; and uphold committee procedures and quorum rules.
 Approve quickly to keep the meeting on schedule.


14.
Task: Reviews research proposals and other documents or submissions
When reviewing a research proposal for completeness, the most critical verificatio on is to:

 Confirm that the proposal is well-written and free of typos.
 Ensure the budget looks reasonable at first glance.
 Check all mandatory components (scientific aims, compliance statements/approvals, risk assessments, data management/security, staffing qualifications, budget/justification, and timelines) are present and consistent.
 Skip review if sponsor has already provided preliminary feedback.


15.
Task: Reviews, analyzes, and initiates implementation of all policies and regulations that affect and/or govern research funding operations
Upon release of a new fundi to ng policy affecting indirect cost calculations, the correct first step is to:

 Wait for auditors to interpret the change before acting.
 Perform a policy gap analysis, update procedures and templates, communicate changes to stakeholders, adjust systems/calculators, and implement training with an effective date and monitoring plan.
 Apply the new rate only to future grants without review.
 Ignore the change until a sponsor enforces it on an application.


16.
Task: Oversees and assists in compliance and tracking of fiscal expenditures
To ensure compliant tracking of fiscal expenditures for a large research portfolio, the most effective control is to:

 Review expenses at year-end and resolve discrepancies then.
 Establish routine reconciliations t to the general ledger, enforce allowability/allocability/ reasonableness checks, flag variances, and implement corrective actions with documented approvals.
 Approve all PI purchase requests to encourage progress.
 Disable budget controls to prevent workflow delays.


17.
Task: Exercises responsibility for budget formulation, presentation, and execution
During budget formulation for the next fiscal year, the best practice is to:

 Base estimates on last year’s spending with a simple inflation factor.
 Conduct zero-based or program-based planning tied to objectives, workload forecasts, and regulatory mandates; develop narratives and justifications; and align execution plans and controls for the year.
 Set a single top-line figure to encourage frugality.
 Delay formulation until after the first quarter to have more data.


18.
Task: Works closely with principal investigators in the development of budgets for their specific research programs
When partnering with a PI to develop a study budget, the most important step is to:

 Ask the PI to provide a lump-sum estimate to save time.
 Build a detailed cost model (personnel, fringe, equipment, supplies, patient care costs, subawards, travel, indirects) aligned to the scope, schedule, compliance requirements? and sponsor terms; validate assumptions and contingencies.
 Exclude indirect costs to make the budget more competitive.
 Use a template from a different sponsor without changes.


19.
Task: Analyzes budget issues and recommends solutions
If mid-year analysis reveals overspending in participant costs due to higher-than-expected enrollment, the best solution is to:

 Ignore it; future months may trend lower.
 Reduce all other categories proportionally without review.
 Conduct root-cause analysis, reforecast, pursue a rebudget if allowable, adjust enrollment targets or protocol cost drivers, and implement controls; communicate with sponsor if required.
 Move costs to an unrelated project to cover the gap.


20.
Task: Reviews the acquisition of supplies and services as the approving official on requests for supplies, equipment, services and other needs of all research investigators
As the approving official, the most compliant review step for a specialized equipment purchase is to:

 Approve if the PI states it is essential.
 Split the purchase into smaller orders to avoid formal review.
 Compare the price to a past purchase and approve if similar.
 Verify allowability and necessity to the project, confirm funding and purchasing method, review competition/sole-source justification, ensure property management and installation requirements, and document approvals.


21.
Task: Oversees budget formulation, justification, execution, and financial reporting
To ensure end-to-end integrity in budget formulation, justification, execution, and reporting, the most critical overarching practice is to:

 Focus on reporting since it is visible to leadership.
 Emphasize execution and relax controls during formulation.
 Allow each PI to manage budgets independently without oversight.
 Integrate a governance framework linking planning assumptions, internal controls, periodic reconciliations, variance analysis, risk management, and formal reviews across the full budget lifecycle.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙