Position Title
Enforcement Officer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13006266-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Key Largo, FL
 B. Key West, FL


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
ZA-2: Select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Enforcement Officer, ZA-1801-2 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-1) or GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in law enforcement patrol and inspection activities to detect violations of laws and regulations to protect marine resources; and Participating in natural resource compliance data collection.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I meet the criteria for a superior academic achievement demonstrated by a related bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with one of the following: A grade point average (GPA) of 2.9 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study; A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. Note: It is your responsibility to ensure your application clearly states how you meet one of these provisions. You must attach a copy of your transcripts showing completed degree and, if applicable, proof of national Scholastic Honor Society membership.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
ZA-3: Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Enforcement Officer, ZA-1801-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Conducting law enforcement patrol and inspection activities to detect violations of laws and regulations to protect marine resources; Identifying violations or crimes, investigating and apprehending suspects; and Preparing investigative reports delineating findings from investigative or inspection activities.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.) [if applicable to the series, the specific fields are defined here mirroring JOA/JA language]
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
This position has a maximum entry age requirement. The date immediately preceding an individual's 37th birthday is the maximum entry age for original appointment to a position as a law enforcement officer as defined in Title 5 U.S.C. 8336(c) and 8412(d). This age restriction does not apply to those who have previously served in the Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement positions covered by Title 5 provisions, or to veterans eligible for preference. Select the one statement from the choices below that best demonstrates your qualifications regarding this requirement.

 I am currently under 37 years of age and will not have reached my 37th birthday prior to the closing date of this announcement.
 I am currently 37 years of age or older AND I am currently serving in OR I have prior Federal civilian (not military) service in a covered position. I have included all applicable SF-50s in this application packet to prove I will be eligible to retire on or before the mandatory retirement age.
 I am 37 years of age or older, but I am exempt from the maximum entry age requirement because I am a preference eligible. I have included appropriate documentation to prove my entitlement to veteran’s preference.
 I am currently 37 years of age or older and do not meet the maximum entry age requirement.


4.
If you selected the response that you are not subject to the age restriction because you are serving or have previously served in a covered civilian Federal Law Enforcement Officer position, please indicate the number of creditable years of service you have accrued. If this doesn't apply to you, please input NA. (Maximum length of 10 characters)



Assessment 2
1.
During a routine at-sea boarding of a commercial vessel, what is the FIRST priority?

 Complete inspection paperwork
 Ensure officer safety and control of the scene
 Interview the captain
 Photograph all gear


2.
Foreign-flagged fishing vessels may engage in "fishing" within the U.S. EEZ:

 Never
 After notifying NOAA that it had entered the EEZ
 Upon issuance of a permit by NOAA Fisheries
 For subsistence when engaged in innocent transit


3.
When applying fishery and wildlife statutes, the officer should primarily ensure:

 Local customs are prioritized
 Enforcement aligns with statutory authority and agency policy
 Outcomes favor industry cooperation
 Enforcement is delayed pending legal counsel


4.
Which resource BEST supports compliance determinations during inspections?

 Informal guidance from industry
 Media summaries
 Fishery Management Plans and applicable federal statutes/regulations
 Prior year case outcomes only


5.
Which behavior MOST reflects professional conduct during enforcement operations?

 Expediency over procedure
 Consistent adherence to policy, safety protocols, and legal standards
 Informal shortcuts with experienced operators
 Prioritizing case volume over quality


6.
At a port of entry, you identify marine products with questionable documentation. What is the MOST appropriate next step?

 Seize the shipment immediately
 Detain the driver without explanation
 Verify documentation and consult applicable statutes/regulations
 Allow entry pending later review


7.
During a NOAA Office of Law Enforcement fishing vessel boarding, what is the primary purpose of the inspection?

 Conduct a mandatory safety drill for the crew.
 To buy fish directly from the vessel for educational purposes.
 To assist the vessel in navigating to the nearest fishing grounds.
 To check for compliance with federal fishing regulations, such as gear restrictions, quota limits, and closed areas


8.
In professional law enforcement, "discretion" is best defined as:

 The authority to choose between different courses of action based on professional judgment and department policy.
 Give the person a chance to explain their side of the story.
 To arrest every person who commits a crime, regardless of the severity of the crime.
 The ability for an officer to disregard any law they personally disagree with.


9.
Which practice BEST preserves the chain of custody?

 Secure, document, and log evidence at the point of collection
 Label evidence after returning to the office
 Store evidence in a personal locker
 Transfer evidence verbally between officers


10.
You receive a call from the public alleging that CAPT J, a commercial fishing vessel, landed a large sea turtle and that the crew was seen harvesting it on deck. What is the BEST course of action?
 Arrest the captain immediately when the fishing vessel docks
 Close the complaint due to lack of evidence.
 Do a preliminary investigation immediately to assess the credibility of the information.
 Notify the local police department


11.
A case involves potential violations spanning state and federal jurisdictions. What is the BEST approach?

 Coordinate with appropriate state and federal partners
 Proceed independently
 Transfer the case entirely
 Delay action until a joint task force forms


12.
Which action BEST supports effective stakeholder outreach?

 Sharing operational details publicly
 Deferring all questions to headquarters.
 Limiting communication to written notices
 Providing accurate, appropriate compliance information


13.
A great investigative report includes the following information:

 Brief summaries without sources
 Factual narratives with evidence, witness statements, methodology, and evidence-based findings.
 Verbatim field notes only
 Supervisor-edited content exclusively


14.
Proper use of the OLE case management system requires:

 Entering data at case closure only
 Upload photos only.
 Timely, accurate entry and updates throughout the case lifecycle
 Delegating all entries to the administrative staff


15.
During an aerial patrol aboard the USCG C-130, a VMS technician texts to report that F/V Chuck Z's VMS unit is not transmitting. You notice the fishing vessel is hauling in its catch, and its current location is 5 nautical miles inside a Sanctuary. What is the best course of action?
 Document what you are seeing via photos/video, including the CG crew, to document the vessel’s current location.
 Call the vessel on Channel 16 and advise them to turn on their VMS unit.
 Contact your supervisor for directions.
 Contact the USCG cutter to seize the vessel.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


16.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙