Position Title
Detail to Unclassified Duties (Executive Secretary)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-DO-26-12973997 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please provide responses to the questions below.  Your answers will be evaluated for clarity, organization, grammar, punctuation, and adherence to formal correspondence standards.


1.
Describe your interest in this detail along with your relevant experience and skills that make you a strong candidate. How have you demonstrated discretion and professionalism in your current or previous roles? (Maximum 250 words)


2.
Prepare a formal memorandum addressed to the FLETC Director.  In the memorandum, provide a concise summary highlighting the critical importance of timely completion of Departmental taskings.  Additionally, propose a specific process improvement or recommendation designed to enhance FLETC's ability to consistently meet established deadlines. (Maximum 250 words)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.

Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙