Position Title
OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST (SENIOR WORKFORCE ANALYST)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-13050942-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current DCSA federal civilian employee applying for this vacancy?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.

 I have specialized experience sufficient to demonstrate that I have acquired all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-13) in the Federal service and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Specialized experience is described as: Analyzing experience related to workforce analytics, which includes research, ad-hoc analyses, and human capital and business analytics reporting. Applying expertise in statistical analyses to conduct qualitative and quantitative analysis in a human capital or business analytics setting. Proficiently building dynamic data-driven reports and visualization products to convey workforce data, trends, and other insights to help inform strategic workforce planning, and decision making.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


2.
The 1515 series has a positive education requirement. Please select the best response that applies.

 I have a bachelor's or higher degree from an accredited college or university in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus.
 I do not meet the education requirements for this position.


3.
Are you a current DCSA employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please describe your experience developing strategies and initiatives designed to conduct research and analyze complex data outcomes and outputs related to workforce and business analytics. Please include what methodologies you developed or used when conducting workforce or business analytics related research.


5.
Please describe your experience conducting data mining, data cleansing, data modeling, predictive modeling, and using relational databases.


6.
Please describe your experience building dynamic data-driven reports and visualization products to convey workforce and business analytics data, trends, and other insights which informed leadership decision making or strategic workforce planning.


7.
Please describe your in-depth experience with modern statistical analysis and data visualization tools (ex. Tableau, Qlik, SAS, SPSS, RStudio, etc.). Please specify what tools you have used and what statistical analyses you have conducted.


8.
Please describe your experience in oral and written communications preparing, presenting, and explaining complex data, information, recommendations, and findings to leaders.


9.
Please describe your experience and/or working knowledge of Title 5 and Title 10 human capital policies and practices, employment law and regulations, and privacy restrictions related to the use of human capital data.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙