Position Title
Medical Records Administrator Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12979784-26-GMN Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-0669-05/07/09/11 position with the Veterans Health Administration, Fayetteville VAMC. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


1.
Education/Experience: Please select the appropriate answer based on your Education/Experience.
 Three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems.
 Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.
 Equivalent combinations of [creditable] experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. [For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
 I do not meet the education or education/experience combination requirement


1a.
If your answer is based off of education that you have obtained, please include the following information below:

School Name:
Degree:
Award Date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
CERTIFICATION. Persons hired or reassigned to MRA positions in the GS-0669 series in VHA must meet one of the following:

(1) Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. Mastery certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) or the American Association of Professional Coders (AAPC). To be acceptable for qualification, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level coding certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level coding certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies; however, current mastery level coding certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) - Physician-based (CCS-P), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), and Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).

OR

(2) HIM Certification through AHIMA. Higher-level health information management certification is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of HIM certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).

OR

(3) Health Data Analyst Certification through AHIMA. This is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must certify mastery in health data analysis. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of health data analyst certification may be added/removed by the above certifying body; however, current health data analyst certification includes Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA).

Do you meet this certification requirement?*

YOU MUST PROVIDE A COPY OF YOUR CERTIFICATION WITH YOUR APPLICATION
 Yes
 No


3.
Medical Records Administration Specialist GS-5. None beyond basic requirements.

(a) Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve in an MRA career development position under close supervision. MRAs are responsible for generating multiple HIM reports. They participate in various health record review activities to ensure the integrity of the health record according to established policies.

Do you meet the experience at the GS-05 level?
 Yes
 No


4.
Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-7

(a) Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of [creditable] experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

OR,

(b) Education. . Applicants who meet the GS-5 grade level may be appointed at the GS-7 grade level, if they possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in a major field of study in health information management, with an exemplary academic record as demonstrated by: i. A 3.0 or higher-grade point average (GPA) out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B" or better), as recorded on their official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; or ii. A 3.5 GPA or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field of study, or the required courses completed in the major field of study during the final two years of the curriculum.

AND

(c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.
i. Knowledge of current classification systems such as International Classification of Diseases, Current Procedural Terminology,] and [the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS).
ii. Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) with medical center staff, patients, and external entities. 
iii. Ability to use data collection and analytical techniques for purposes of review, quality control, studies and analysis of health information.
iv. Ability to utilize computer applications with varied functions to produce a wide range of reports, to abstract records, collect and analyze data and present results in various formats.
v. Ability to work independently, adapt to shifting priorities, and meet deadlines.

(d) Assignment. Employees at this level serve in an MRA career development position with guidance from the supervisor or designee in day-to-day assignments. MRAs are responsible for generating, analyzing, and presenting multiple HIM reports. They monitor health record data integrity per established policies, procedures, and industry standards. They prepare workload and production reports and monitor trends to identify efficiencies and deviations. Additionally, they participate in various health record review activities. The MRA typically participates in various facility and regional committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise.

Do you meet the experience at the GS-07 level?
 Yes
 No


5.
Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-9

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics described at that level.

OR,

(b) Education. Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information management.

AND,

(c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
i. Knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to health information management and health records.
ii. Ability to provide technical advice and guidance on health information [management practices.
iii. Skill in extracting data from various sources and analyzing health information to create reports.
iv. Skill in researching,] interpreting, and applying health information management guidelines.
v. Knowledge of performance and process improvement techniques to develop new or improved solutions in health information management.

(d) Assignments. Employees at this level serve in an MRA career development position with limited guidance, from the supervisor or designee, in day-to-day assignments. MRAs are responsible for generating and analyzing multiple HIM reports and identifying best practices or opportunities for improvement. They perform workflow analyses, recommend process improvements, and implement changes to improve the productivity and quality controls of the HIM department. They monitor reports, trends, and health record data integrity according to established policies, procedures, and industry standards. MRAs participate in various health record review activities. They also participate in various facility and regional committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise.

Do you meet the experience at the GS-09 level?

 Yes
 No


6.
Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates all of the KSAs described at that level (see below).Knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to health information management and health records.
Ability to provide technical advice and guidance on health information management practices.
Skill in extracting data from various sources and analyzing health information to create reports.
Skill in researching, interpreting, and applying health information management guidelines.
Knowledge of performance and process improvement techniques to develop new or improved solutions in health information management.

OR,

(b) Education. Education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management.

AND,

Demonstrated Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities below:
Skill in performance and process improvement techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management.
Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations.
Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures.
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management.
Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.
(d) Assignments. This is considered the full performance level for MRA positions (MRA/HIM Specialist). MRAs work independently in day-to-day assignments. They perform data mining; complex data analysis; and interpret and transform data into accurate, consistent, and timely information in support of the business and operational needs of the HIM department and the organization. They present findings and recommendations to the Chief of HIM (CHIM) and facility leadership. MRAs perform workflow analyses, recommend process improvements, identify and implement best practices, and implement changes as needed to improve the productivity and quality controls of the HIM department. They prepare workload and production reports, monitor trends to identify efficiencies and outliers, and recommend appropriate actions which may involve collaborating with staff at all levels for resolution. The MRA designs and performs quality improvement projects related to health information management to identify and recommend ways of eliminating, combining, simplifying or improving procedures and processes. They compile diagnostic, procedural, and statistical data, and present reports locally, regionally, or nationally. MRAs lead various health record review activities. They participate in various facility, regional, and/or national committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The MRA exhibits broad organizational knowledge, communicates and provides training and education to individuals and groups, at multiple levels, both internal and external to the facility.

Do you possess experience at the GS-11 level


 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, commit deception, or fraud in this application and its surrounding materials, or any document, or interview associated with the examination process, my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No", or providing no response to this item, will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


RESUME' REMINDER: Your resume' must include the following for each job listed:
1) Job title, Series and Grade level/salary. To show that you meet time-in-grade, you must document grades you have held and how long you have held them;
2) Duties (you must include enough detailed information to support your specialized experience);
3) Month and year start/end dates (e.g. 04/2007 to 04/2008);
4) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week);
5) Supervisor's contact information and whether or not the supervisor can be contacted.
6) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume'. Be sure that your resume' clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume' format, your resume' must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙