Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13033008-26-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration.

SPF for this position: You must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken Spanish?
 Yes. I am proficient in written and spoken Spanish.
 No. I am not proficient in written and spoken Spanish and I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position in Puerto Rico.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
The following education requirements apply to the Supervisory Recreational Therapist:

A bachelor's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in therapeutic recreation or recreation/leisure, with an option and/or emphasis in therapeutic recreation. The degree must be approved by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC);

OR,

A bachelor's degree or higher in any field from an accredited college or university and must be a certified therapeutic recreation specialist (CTRS). The degree must be approved by the NCTRC. If hired under this education, the certification cannot be waived.

Note: Transcripts will need to be provided to verify.

Do you meet this education requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Applicants must be certified in recreation therapy as a Certified Therapeutic Recreation Specialist (CTRS) by the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC).

Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


3.
English Language Proficiency: You must be proficient in written and spoken English, as required by 38 U.S.C ? 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


4.
To qualify for the Supervisory Recreation Therapist GS-12, you have to have at least one year of creditable experience at the next lower grade level (GS-11). Experience include:  developing positive patterns of behavior; relaxation and stress reduction; lifestyle alteration; social skills training; developing or improving (enhancing) self-esteem; developing and maintaining positive relationships; motor learning and training strategies; anger and pain management; identify risks; recovery support; lifestyle adjustment; conflict/problem resolution; adjustment to disability; and including coping with grief and loss. Resourcefulness is exercised in providing individualized, unique, effective methods and procedures when implementing therapeutic interventions including, but not limited to: assistive technology; cognitive behavioral skills; aquatic therapy; fitness and wellness; community accessibility/reintegration/transition; and adapted sports and leisure development. Patient needs are evaluated for additional, alternative, or termination of services. Intervention plans are monitored for effectiveness, making modifications, as needed. Recreation therapists determine the effectiveness of protocols, modalities, and programs for targeted groups through quantitative analysis and identify potential risks and needs for adaptive interventions to facilitate improved biopsychosocial well-being. They participate in co-treatment opportunities, including but not limited to: neurological rehabilitation, mental health recovery programs, and palliative care related to the symptoms of a terminal illness. Discharge analysis and planning is conducted for community needs.

Do you possess one year of experience listed above?
 Yes
 No


5.
In addition to the experience in the question above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to provide treatment in complex cases and work with great independence.
Ability to balance multiple responsibilities, set priorities, delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems, and develop and implement effective solutions.
Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems to develop and implement solutions that result in efficient operations and use data effectively to manage workload, quality, performance, and productivity within the service.
Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with employees, team leaders, and managers.
Ability to use evidence-based practices, clinical practice guidelines in a professional area, and to guide the staff in applying these tools.
Knowledge of organizational theories and strategies to positively impact the overall goals and objectives within the service.
Knowledge related to administrative functions such as fiscal, material supply, equipment management, and clinical and program management
Note: Please ensure how you meet the specialized experience is clearly described in your resume; we may not make assumptions regarding your experience.

Can you demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities listed above?
 Yes
 No


6.
I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001). I understand that failure to respond or responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙