Position Title
Veterans Service Representative
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
327- 26-BC-12995402-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Montgomery, AL
 B. Little Rock, AR
 C. Saint Petersburg, FL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Louisville, KY
 F. Jackson, MS
 G. Winston-Salem, NC
 H. San Juan, PR
 I. Columbia, SC
 J. Nashville, TN
 K. Roanoke, VA
 L. Huntington, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION CLARIFICATION - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent  Atlanta, GA; Columbia, SC; Jackson, MS; Louisville, KY; Nashville, TN; Roanoke, VA; San Juan, PR; St. Petersburg, FL Winston-Salem, NC; Huntington, WV; Montgomery, AL; or Little Rock, AR, VBA Regional Office employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible. For this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.

NOTE: For purposes of this job announcement, unless CTAP eligible, you are ONLY eligible to be considered for the FACILITY where you are a current, permanent employee.


1.
Are you a current, permanent Atlanta, GA; Columbia, SC; Jackson, MS; Louisville, KY; Nashville, TN; Roanoke, VA; San Juan, PR; St. Petersburg, FL Winston-Salem, NC; Huntington, WV; Montgomery, AL; or Little Rock, VBA Regional Office employee, or are you a Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employee in the commuting area of the facilities mentioned above?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my current employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


Specialized Experience: From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the specialized experience and/or education requirements for this position.


2.
GS-07 Specialized Experience. From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirement for this position at the GS-07 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the federal service); assisting with documentation to determine basic eligibility for benefits or programs such as but not limited to: disability, worker and unemployment insurance compensation, insurance, loans, education, or retirement programs.
 I possess one full year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement (2.95 or higher GPA at the undergraduate level). (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described above. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience or education as described in the above statements.


3.
GS-09 Specialized Experience. From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirements for this position at the GS-09 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service that includes: 1) Interpreting laws, regulations, or procedures to analyze evidence to make recommendations, and 2) Following procedures to process eligibility claims for benefits such as but not limited to: disability, worker and unemployment insurance compensation, insurance, loans, education, or retirement programs.
 I have at least a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., and my education is directly related to the position (Must provide supporting transcripts).
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as described above. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience or education as described in the above statements.


4.
GS-10 Specialized Experience. From the descriptions below, please select the statement that best describes how you meet the education and/or experience requirements for this position at the GS-10 level.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service that include: 1) Asking questions relating to military service or medical evidence to make determinations as to the eligibility for programs, 2) Reviewing claims or cases to assure all laws have been laws addressed in the adjudication process, and 3) Informing claimants of all evidence requirements needed to further process a claim for benefits and/or services.
 Two and a half years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education as described above. (Must provide supporting Transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience or education as described in the above statements.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


5.
GS-07. Please select one response below that most accurately describes how you meet Time-In-Grade:
 I have 1-year Time-In-Grade at the GS-5 level or higher grade.
 I do not have 1-year Time-In-Grade at the GS-5 level.


6.
GS-09. Please select one response below that most accurately describes how you meet Time-In-Grade:
 I have 1-year Time-In-Grade at the GS-7 level or higher grade.
 I do not have 1-year Time-In-Grade at the GS-7 level.


7.
GS-10. Please select one response below that most accurately describes how you meet Time-In-Grade:
 I have 1-year Time-In-Grade at the GS-9 level or higher grade.
 I do not have 1-year Time-In-Grade at the GS-9 level.


Certification Statement: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentionally false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.


8.
Please certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙