Position Title
Recreation Specialist (GEI)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13051631 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Specialist GEI/CFL position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Have you documented experience working in a fitness program showing ability to instruct a group exercise program and/or a certified personal trainer?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you uploaded proof to qualify for the fitness instructor/personal trainer instructor? (Fitness instructor, personal trainer or certification from an accredited health/fitness organization OR a primary certification from an accredited health/fitness organization:AAPTE - Academy of Applied Personal Training Education; ACE - American Council on ExerciseACSM - American College of Sports Medicine; ACTION Certification; CI - The Cooper Institute for Aerobic Research; CSCCa - Collegiate Strength and Conditioning Coaches association; IFPA - International Fitness Professionals Association; ISFTA - International Sports & Fitness Trainers Association; NASM - National Academy of Sports Medicine; NAYS - National Alliance for Youth Sports; NCHEC - National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, Inc.; NCSF - National Council on Strength and Fitness; NESTA - National Exercise and Sports Trainers Association; NETA - National Exercise Trainers Association; NFPT - National Federation of Professional Trainers; NSCA - National Strength and Conditioning Association; PTA Global, Inc.TWCC - Training & Wellness Certification CommissionDEAC (Distance Education Accrediting Commission) Accredited Certifying AgenciesISSA - International Sports Sciences Association; USCI - US Career Institute
 Yes I have uploaded a copy of my certification(s)
 No I have not uploaded a copy of my certification(s) but will provide at time of interview.
 No I do not have any of the above certification(s)


3.
How many years of documented experience in leading a group exercise class have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a Navy setting
 Two plus years in at a civilian sector
 One to Two years in any setting
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience


4.
How many years of documented experience as a personal trainer have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a Navy setting.
 Two plus years at a civilian sector.
 One to two years in any setting.
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙