Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist - EDRP Approved
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13054581-26-MW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


5.
Does each of your relevant work experience listed on your resume include all of the following required information?
Employer name
Job title
Start and end dates (include the month and year).
The number of hours you worked per week.
Brief descriptions that show you can perform the tasks at the required level listed in the job announcement.
Series and grade for federal jobs only.
 Yes
 No


6.
Please select any all all shifts you would accept.
 A. Evening Shift: Monday - Friday; 4:00pm - 12:00am (Midnight)
 B. Night Shift: Monday - Friday; 12:00am (Midnight) - 8:00am


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Clinical Laboratory Specialist. The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-11. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-07 to GS-11.

GS-7: 
None

GS-9:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

GS-11:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.




1.
Education: Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes, I possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university. (If your school was regionally accredited at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.)
 Yes, I possess foreign education. Note: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following: (1) Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program, OR (2) The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination. (Submit appropriated documentation with your application.)
 No, I do not meet either of these options as listed above; therefore, I do not qualify for this position.


2.
Narrative: Please provide the following information regarding your education:
College or University:
Degree (Ex. Bachelor of science):
Date awarded:


3.
Certification: Are you certified by: (a) Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT, (b) Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT, or (c) Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT? Please attach copy with your application.
 Yes.
 Yes, I meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS. I do not currently hold a certification, but I am actively working toward certification and I am eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency. (Note: Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level-GS-7 and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained. Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.)
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 No, I do not meet any of the criteria listed above; therefore, I do not qualify for this position.


4.
Narrative: Please provide the following information regarding your Certification:
Issuing Body:
Certification Number:
Date First Issued:
Expiration Date:


5.
GS-7 GRADE DETERMINATION: Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I have been continuously employed as a Clinical Laboratory Scientist (CL) within VA Since 12/03/2024, the release date of the current CLS Qualification Standard.
 No.


6.
GS-9 GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to the basic requirements, I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-7); OR Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science. Experience includes: knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing, knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles, knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance, ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments, ability to read and interpret written instructions, ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
You must be fully certified to be appointed at the GS-9 level.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification (related to this position) by ASCP or AMT.
 Yes, I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
 Yes, I have a Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 No, I do not meet either of these options.


7.
GS-11 GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to the basic requirements, I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-9), OR I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. Examples of experience would include, but are not limited to: evaluating, performing, interpreting, and validating the accuracy and validity of test results; clinical knowledge and experience by performing testing procedures on a variety of biological specimens using manual or automated methods including routine testing, quality control, routine maintenance of instrumentation, and troubleshooting that applies innovative procedures and problem solving.
 Yes, I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-9.
 Yes, I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
 No, I do not meet either of these options.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙