Position Title
WELDER
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-13052642-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Louisville, KY
 B. Pittsburgh, PA
 C. Nashville, TN


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Welder position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Ability To Do The Work Of The Position Without More Than Normal Supervision**Screen out** - Ability To Do The Work Of The Position Without More Than Normal Supervision. From the descriptions below select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Welder duties without more than normal supervision.
 
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties as welder. I am skilled in repair, modify or fabricate all types of metal and alloy parts, working processes include pre-heating, brazing, flame-cutting, heat treating, bead or tack welding, and the use of templates and jigs as needed to bend and cut metal of various shapes, sizes, and thickness; I can use blueprints, sketches, work orders, specifications, or other guides to plan, layout, and work orders to complete assignments; I can operate a heavy equipment such as overhead cranes, dump truck, aria lifts, and forklifts to assures proper fit of required safety equipment. I am considered an expert and work with high degree of dependence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties as welder. I am skilled in repair, modify or fabricate all types of metal and alloy parts, working processes include pre-heating, brazing, flame-cutting, heat treating, bead or tack welding, and the use of templates and jigs as needed to bend and cut metal of various shapes, sizes, and thickness; I can use blueprints, sketches, work orders, specifications, or other guides to plan, layout, and work orders to complete assignments. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties as welder. I am skilled in repair, modify or fabricate all types of metal and alloy parts, working processes include pre-heating, brazing, flame-cutting, heat treating, bead or tack welding, and the use of templates and jigs as needed to bend and cut metal of various shapes, sizes, and thickness; I can use blueprints, sketches, work orders, specifications, or other guides to plan, layout, and work orders to complete assignments. I work close general supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee to observe tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform, simple and a variety of basic repair, modify or fabricate all types of metal and alloy parts, working processes include pre-heating, brazing, flame-cutting, heat treating, bead or tack welding, and the use of templates and jigs as needed to bend and cut metal of various shapes, sizes, and thickness; I can use blueprints, sketches, work orders, specifications, or other guides to plan, layout, and work orders to complete assignments.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙