Position Title
Deputy Assistant Director Regulatory Affairs
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12921133 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience and a working knowledge in ALL of the following:
Assisting in managing and participating in the formulation and revision of regulations and regulatory documents implementing economic sanctions programs; AND
Developing recommendations for improvement to implement U.S. foreign policy, Executive actions, and legislative changes; AND
Leading multiple project teams in the performance of work involving program reviews, analyses and development of cross-agency activities.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statements.
 I fully meet all aspects of the GS-15 level of specialized experience as defined above.
 I do not meet the specialized experience statements listed above.


2.
Select the statement(s) that describe the communication activities you have performed as a regular, recurring part of your job.
 A. Served as a spokesperson for the organization on program or project issues to a variety of stakeholder groups and federal, state and local agencies.
 B. Developed and issued guidance or policy statements on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues for the organization.
 C. Served and/or facilitated on panels, committees or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 D. Provided guidance to other agency representatives or private industry on technical, programmatic, or professional issues that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 E. Facilitated partnering or working sessions between organizational entities.
 F. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal group setting.
 G. Built and fostered relationships with external customers, partners, stakeholders that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 H. Presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals and needs with other organizational entities.
 I. Presented briefings and formal presentations to representatives of external entities on policy, program, organizational, or project issues.
 J. Prepared or reviewed written reports on organizational program/project status.
 K. Facilitated solutions on controversial issues affecting the scope of programs or projects with the public.
 L. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have experience in working closely with agency officers to implement regulatory controls involving U.S. foreign policy and national security, with the ability to advise executive officials on implementation, policy, or compliance strategies that enhance and maximize organizational goals?
 Yes
 No


4.
 From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied.
 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 F. Develop trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 G. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal.
 H. None of the above


5.
The position requires reviewing and writing a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products on issues related to economic sanctions in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: Federal Register notices, new and amended regulations, decision memos, research analyses, briefing papers, analyses of options, and evaluation of legislative proposals. Please indicate which choice best describes your experience composing written products.
 As a principal job responsibility, I independently wrote a variety of authoritative analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance to advise senior decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to national security, sanctions, and international regulatory matters and included all of the products described above.
 Routinely wrote a variety of analytical products, either while working within a group or team or independently assessing complex and controversial public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to national security, sanctions, and international regulatory matters and included at least 4 of the products described above.
 While working within a group or team, I wrote a variety of analytical products assessing complex and controversial public policy issues related to national security, sanctions, and international regulatory matters for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products included at least three of the examples described above.
 None of the above


6.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience in conducting research and developing assessments in the areas of U.S. national security, foreign policy, intelligence, and/or economic sanctions.
 Assisted in completing a major regulatory, policy, or factual assessment in one or more of these areas using classified information and briefed senior officials on the results of the assessment.
 Participated as an agency representative and subject matter expert in an inter-agency working group that established new regulatory action or policy in one of these areas.
 Participated as part of a team conducting a major investigation into or assessment on an issue in one of these areas which resulted in substantial changes in policy or regulation.
 None of the above


7.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your expertise and knowledge with regard to the development and implementation of the laws and regulations governing not only U.S. foreign policy with respect to existing economic sanctions programs administered by Treasury/OFAC, but also U.S. national security, trade controls and economic sanctions.
 I have assisted in overseeing the development and implementation of the laws and regulations governing not only U.S. foreign policy with respect to existing economic sanctions programs administered by Treasury/OFAC, but also U.S. national security, trade controls and economic sanctions.
 I have independently developed and implemented laws and regulations governing not only U.S. foreign policy with respect to existing economic sanctions programs administered by Treasury/OFAC, but also U.S. national security, trade controls and economic sanctions.
 I have assisted in, or been a member of a team that has worked on, the development and implementation of the laws and regulations governing not only U.S. foreign policy with respect to existing economic sanctions programs administered by Treasury/OFAC, but also U.S. national security, trade controls and economic sanctions.
 None of the above


8.
From the following list, identify the types of national security-related research and analysis products you have written.
 A. Policy documents
 B. Briefing papers/talking points for senior officials
 C. Academic or professional journal/newspaper articles
 D. Newspaper articles
 E. Intelligence estimates, assessments, or reports
 F. Legal Briefs or Memoranda of Law
 G. Regulations
 H. None of the above


9.
Please choose from below the areas of the US Government regulatory community that you have experience in.
 A. Economic sanctions
 B. Foreign policy implementation
 C. Regulatory licensing
 D. International banking or finance
 E. International trade compliance
 F. Drafting or analysis of regulations
 G. Regulatory compliance outreach
 H. Interagency processes involving national security
 I. None of the above


10.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience with regard to the implementation and administration of U.S. economic sanctions programs.
 I have led the development and implementation of detailed U.S. sanctions regulatory actions and guidance or managed the development and implementation of U.S. sanctions compliance programs in support of individuals, companies, organizations, or government agencies.
 I have supported the development and implementation of sanctions regulatory actions, guidance, or internal compliance programs or performed research and analysis concerning U.S. economic sanctions in support of companies, organizations, or government agencies.
 I have no knowledge of U.S. economic sanctions programs.


11.
From the choices below, select the one that best describes your experience in applying facts to U.S. regulations, executive orders, and statutes that apply to OFAC mission requirements, and economic sanctions programs administered by Treasury.
 I have led and overseen the application of facts to U.S. regulations, executive orders, and statutes that relate to U.S. economic sanctions programs to determine an appropriate result as demonstrated by my work experience with U.S. economic sanctions programs, such as through the development, drafting, and implementation of policy, regulatory, or legal analysis and guidance concerning compliance with U.S. economic sanctions programs in support of individuals, companies, organizations, or government agencies.
 I have applied facts to U.S. regulations, executive orders, and statutes to determine an appropriate result as demonstrated by my work experience with U.S. economic sanctions programs, such as through research and analysis concerning U.S. economic sanctions in support of companies, organizations, or government agencies.
 I have no knowledge of U.S. economic sanctions programs.


12.
Select the responsibilities you have performed while in a leadership-type role.
 A. Oversaw, directed or planned work to be accomplished by employees including setting priorities and preparing schedules for the completion of work and adjusted as needed.
 B. Assigned work to employees based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on program specific, technical, and/or administrative matters.
 D. Reviewed work product of employees and provided substantive written feedback.
 E. Interviewed candidates and made recommendations to fill vacant position(s).
 F. Resolved office conflicts through meetings and/or other formal or informal means.
 G. Found ways to improve production or increase the quality of the work directed.
 H. Identified developmental and training needs of employees and provided, or arranged for, needed development and training.
 I. Recognized and rewarded employees for their contributions
 J. Have been designated as a team leader, assisting the immediate supervisor with assignment of tasks.
 K. None of the above


13.
Which of the following types of teams have you planned, organized, and or managed?
 A. Within a work group
 B. Professional Experts
 C. Contractors or service providers
 D. Multi-disciplinary/ cross functional
 E. Multi Organizational
 F. Multi agency
 G. None of the above


14.
Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience building consensus on policy or program related issues where there are conflicting positions?
 I have no experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues.
 I have experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues, which required developing cooperation, coordinating activities, and reaching consensus.
 I have experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues, which required agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, interacting with individuals constructively, and solving problems.
 I have experience building consensus to resolve complex and controversial issues, which required analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, defusing conflict, building coalitions and consensus, and reaching solutions to controversial issues.


15.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to manage a staff or team and other resources within a large, multi-disciplined organization, including the ability to set program goals, prepare budgets, and establish strategies in support of agency missions.
 I have led and managed a multi-disciplined organization, staff or team and set goals, developed strategies and managed resources in support of agency missions.
 I have managed an organization, staff, or team primarily in an acting or detail capacity and with limited responsibility for resource management or staff.
 I have led teams and/or managed projects in support of specific agency objectives but without general responsibility for staff or other resources.
 I have no experience in the management of a large, multi-disciplined organization or in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙