Position Title
Audit Director (IT) - Technology Operations Directorate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-26-138B-13005852-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Bethesda, MD
 C. Woburn, MA
 D. Raleigh, NC
 E. Dallas, TX


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Eligibility Requirement - U.S. Public Only (Internal Employees Not Eligible)
 
This announcement is only open to the U.S. Public and nationals
All others are ineligible for this announcement and will not be considered

Important Note - Internal Employees: USPS OIG, USPS, USPIS, or PRC employees are not eligible and will not be considered on this announcement and must apply to announcement #: 13005853


Do you meet the eligibility requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education Requirement (0511 Auditor Occupational Series)


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for this position.

Refer to the following list of acceptable related degrees:
Business Related, including but not limited to: Auditing, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing, Organizational Behavior/Psychology, etc.
Government Related, including but not limited to: Criminal Justice, Political Science, Public Administration, Public Policy, Law, Public Relations/Communications, etc.
Technically Related, including but not limited to: Computer Science, Engineering, Cybersecurity, Information Assurance, Networking, Human Resources, Information Technology, Journalism/Investigative Reporting, Logistics, Supply Chain Management, etc.
 I have a degree in auditing or a related field from the provided list, such as computer science, information technology, cybersecurity, or information assurance from an accredited college or university. I will submit my transcripts with my application.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of professional, full-time experience in technical performance auditing or an equivalent combination of technical auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional technical auditing knowledge. My background also includes either a Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) or Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), or Certified Information Security Manager (CISM); or completion of a degree with substantial coursework in auditing or accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I will submit supporting documentation with my application.
 I do not meet either the education or the combination of education and experience requirements described above.


3.
Professional Technical Auditing Experience Qualification Requirement


Please select which matches your level of professional experience below (your resume must reflect the selected experience).
 More than three (3) years but less than four (4) years of professional, full-time technical performance/program auditing experience that includes planning and conducting audits, evaluations, or inspections. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated experience was gained.
 More than four (4) years but less than five (5) years of professional, full-time technical performance/program auditing experience that includes planning and conducting audits, evaluations, or inspections. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated experience was gained.
 At least five (5) years of professional, full-time technical performance/program auditing experience that includes planning and conducting audits, evaluations, or inspections. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated experience was gained.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described in the announcement.


4.
Management and Leadership Experience Requirement


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the management and leadership requirements for this position.
 More than one (1) year but less than two (2) years of full-time, professional experience leading teams and technical projects. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated experience was gained.
 At least two (2) years or more of full-time, professional experience leading teams and technical projects. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated experience was gained.
 I do not meet the management and leadership requirement for this announcement.


5.
GS-14 Experience Requirement


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the GS-14 equivalent experience requirement for this position.
 I have less than one (1) year (52-weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated GS-14 equivalent experience was gained.
 I have at least one (1) year (52-weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level. My resume will reflect when and where the demonstrated GS-14 demonstrated experience was gained.
 I do not have experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level.


6.
Professional Certification or License (Not Required Unless Applicable)


Do you have a professional certification or license, such as a CISA, CISSP, CISM, CAP, CASP+, or data analytics-related?


Select the option that best matches your current certification status.
 I have a professional certification or license and will submit my certification with my application.
 I do not currently have an active certification or license.


7.
In-Office & Duty Station Requirement


The U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General values collaboration, teamwork, and effective communication to foster our dynamic working and learning environment. This position adheres to our agency's telework policy and is not a remote-eligible position (non-negotiable). You will be required to work at the assigned duty station for which you are selected.


The following locations are available for consideration (relocation not approved or authorized):
Bethesda, MD
Dallas, TX
Denver, CO
Raleigh, NC
Woburn, MA


Select the location(s) that you are interested in and would be able to report to during core business hours.
 A. Bethesda, MD
 B. Dallas, TX
 C. Denver, CO
 D. Raleigh, NC
 E. Woburn, MA
 F. I am not interested in any of the listed locations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Acknowledgement of Required Documentation


This announcement includes specific documentation requirements that all applicants must follow to be considered. Please ensure you upload all required documents listed in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement and assign each to the correct corresponding document type.


For example:
Cover Letter must be uploaded under the Cover Letter document type.
Failure to upload required documents will result in disqualification.
 

Required Documents for this announcement:

Resume
Transcripts (from an accredited college or university)
Cover Letter - Two-page (2) maximum addressing your interest in the position and why you are a good fit.
Performance Appraisal dated within the last fifteen (15) months (FY 2024 / FY 2025) with rating and management comments. Review announcement's Required Documents section for additional information.
 

Optional documents may also be uploaded under their appropriate types.


Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the documentation requirements for this announcement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Certification of Accuracy:


Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.


Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙