Position Title
Assistant General Counsel for Rulemaking, Agreement States, Fee Policy, and Legislation
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
ST-12996581-26-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


2.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Assessment 1
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position ES-0905-00, grade level or equivalent pay band. I have a minimum of eight years of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement or equivalent to include: Extensive experience in handling complex legal issues, making statutory interpretations, preparing legal documents, reviewing documents for legal sufficiency, and developing sound legal decisions and recommendations, involving complex scientific and technical subject matter.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this legal position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts with your application.
 I have a J.D degree, or an LL.M degree: and I am an active member of the bar in good standing (any jurisdiction).
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙