Position Title
Clinical Lab Scientist- Generalist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12860298-26-DRD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfather Provision. A Clinical Laboratory Scientist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/03/2024) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may NOT be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0644-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university?
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification. Certification is REQUIRED at the GS-09 level and above.

Do you possess a current certification as described in the certification options below? -Submit Documentation if Applicable.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).Exception for Non-Certified.
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency.
Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2).
Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL.
Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level (GS-07 level) and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained.
Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.
 Yes, I possess one of the certifications listed above issued by ASCP-BOC, ASCP-BOR, or AMT.
 No, I do NOT currently possess a certification listed above. However, I meet the conditions for Exception to Certification to be given a Temporary Appointment not to exceed 2 years while I actively work towards obtaining Certification.
 No, I do NOT currently possess a certification listed above and do NOT intend on obtaining Certification. I also acknowledge that I may NOT be considered further for this position.


3a.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified indicate N/A.

Type of Certification(s) and numbers
Month and Year Certified/Expected Certification Date
Accrediting Body


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


4.
GS-07 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience (Entry Level):
Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.
Assignment. Employee at this level serves in a CLS entry-level position. It is expected that they receive guidance from more experienced staff members and require daily direct supervision.
Do you possess the Basic Requirements to be appointed at the GS-07 (Entry Level)?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience -OR- Education -AND- Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) (Developmental Level)
Experience -OR- Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07). -OR-
Education. Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
-AND-
Certification. Certification is REQUIRED at this level.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing. 
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
Do you possess the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the Certification -AND- KSAs at the GS-09 level as indicated above?
 Yes, I meet the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the Certification -AND- possess the KSAs indicated above to meet the GS-11 level.
 No, I do NOT meet all the requirements at the GS-11 level and acknowledge that I may NOT be considered further at this level.


6.
GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Experience -OR- Education -AND- Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) (Full Performance Level)
Experience or Education Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:
Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09). -OR-
Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science.
-AND-
Certification. Certification is REQUIRED at this level.
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
Do you possess the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the Certification -AND- KSAs at the GS-11 level as indicated above?
 Yes, I meet the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the Certification -AND- possess the KSAs indicated above to meet the GS-11 level.
 No, I do NOT meet all the requirements at the GS-11 level and acknowledge that I may NOT be considered further at this level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙