Position Title
Wildland Firefighter - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
NPSFAM-26-12895245-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Yosemite National Park, El Portal, CA
 B. Mojave National Preserve, Essex, CA
 C. Sequoia Kings Canyon National Parks, Kings Canyon National Park, CA
 D. Redwood National Park, Orick, CA
 E. Sequoia & Kings Canyon National Parks, Sequoia National Park, CA
 F. Whiskeytown National Recreation Area, Whiskeytown, CA
 G. Yosemite National Park, Yosemite National Park, CA
 H. Joshua Tree National Park, Yucca Valley, CA
 I. Mesa Verde National Park, Mesa Verde National Park, CO
 J. Indiana Dunes National Park, Porter, IN
 K. Theodore Roosevelt National Park, Medora, ND
 L. Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area, Bushkill, PA
 M. Lake Meredith National Recreation Area, Sanford, TX
 N. Zion National Park, Springdale, UT
 O. Shenandoah National Park, Luray, VA


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience Requirements


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience requirements for a Wildland Firefighter (WFM) GS-0456-5 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible.

NOTE: If firefighting experience includes both structural and wildland, it is essential that your application materials clearly separate and document your wildland experience.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS/GW-4 level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience include: Forestry aid or technician work; engineering, range, or soil conservation technician work that involved application of cultural, resource conservation, or land management practices; farming or ranching work that provided a basic understanding of land use and involved the application of cultural and soil and water conservation practices; forest or range fire control, prevention, or suppression work.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study (120 semester hour or 180 quarter hours) leading to a bachelor's degree with major study in forestry, range management, agriculture or a subject-matter field directly related to the position that includes at least 24 semester hours of course work in related course work such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. No more than 6 semester hours in mathematics is creditable.
 I have a combination of education and experience that when combined meet 100% of the qualification requirements.
 I do not meet the above qualification requirement.


Maximum Entry Age Limit


2.
Entry Age (Selective Factor)
This position is covered by the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C 8336 (c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d). Applicants must not have reached their 37th birthday upon appointment to this position unless there is sufficient prior Federal service in a covered position to permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age for this type of position. An exception is allowed if you are a qualified veterans' preference eligible. Please select A, B, C, or D below which best describes how you meet this requirement.
 I have not reached the age of 37.
 I am 37 years of age or older and not currently in a special retirement position, but I would qualify as a preference eligible. Note: Provide the necessary documentation to support your veteran’s preference claim (e.g. copy of DD-214, Veterans Affairs letter, SF-15, etc.).
 I am 37 years of age or older, but I have prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position(s), which would permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57 for this type of position. Note: Provide documentation with your application (a copy of your SF-50’s) that shows beginning and ending dates of your covered Federal service and hours per week.
 I am 37 years of age or older and do not meet any of the above requirements.


3.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, or indicate full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙