Position Title
Craftsman
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-13030028-26-SL (DEU) Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Craftsman BB-4749-00 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your responses. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answers you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified, or you may be placed in a lower quality category.


1.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a tradesman/repairperson (craftsman) without more than normal supervision. Your response below must be fully supported in your resume or you will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have performed 6 or more of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 4-5 of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 3 of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 2 of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).
 I have performed 1 or less of the following duties on a regular basis: millwright, welding, metal fabricating, general mechanics (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing), carpentry, machinist, concrete finishing and repair, plumbing or pipe fitting, painting (industrial), masonry, and equipment operation (such as graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts).


2.
This position requires general knowledge and skill in several craft areas with journeyman-level knowledge and skill in at least one of the following crafts. Please indicate the crafts in which you possess journeyman-level knowledge and skill as reflected in your resume.
 A. Carpentry
 B. Welding
 C. Plumbing or pipe fitting
 D. Concrete finishing and repair
 E. Mechanical work (inspecting, repairing, lubricating and testing)
 F. Mobile equipment or crane operator (graders, backhoes, motor vehicles, forklifts
 G. Metal fabrication
 H. Machinist
 I. Painting (industrial)
 J. Millwright
 K. Electrical maintenance work
 L. Masonry
 M. None of the above


3.
Select the concrete/masonry task(s) you have performed as a regular part of your job.
 A. Pour footings
 B. Pour foundations
 C. Pour stairways
 D. Set forms for flat work
 E. Set forms for retaining wall
 F. Use concrete vibrator
 G. Repair concrete deterioration or spalling
 H. Pour flat surfaces such as sidewalks or slabs
 I. Work with polymer impregnated concrete
 J. Work with epoxy concrete
 K. Calculate the amount of concrete needed to complete a project
 L. Know when to use and have used rebar to complete a project
 M. Finish concrete using floats, trowels, edgers, and jointers
 N. Mix color into concrete
 O. Use cinderblock to build foundations, retaining walls, and buildings
 P. Use brick to build sidewalks, retaining walls, and buildings
 Q. None of the above


4.
Select the equipment you have operated as a regular part of your job.
 A. Semi-tractor and trailers over 26,000 GVW
 B. Dump trucks
 C. Vehicle(s) with multi-gears, manual transmissions
 D. Bulldozer D-3 or larger
 E. Backhoe
 F. Crane(s)-gantry or bridge
 G. Mobile crane
 H. Hydraulic boom truck
 I. Man-lifts
 J. Power Take Off (PTO) powered mowing equipment
 K. Road grader
 L. Forklift
 M. Front end loader
 N. Skid steer front-end loader (Bob Cat)
 O. 4-Wheel drive vehicles, 1/2 or larger, off road
 P. None of the above


5.
Select the welding task(s) you have performed as a regular part of your job
 A. Use MIG wire feed welders
 B. Use TIG welders
 C. Use arc welders
 D. Use cutting torch
 E. Use brazing torch
 F. Braze cast metals
 G. Weld stainless steel
 H. Use plasma cutter
 I. Use heliarc
 J. Perform overhead welding
 K. Perform spot welding
 L. None of the above


6.
Which of the following materials have you welded or cut in a professional (commercial or industrial) work environment?
 A. Steel (cast)
 B. Steel (stainless)
 C. Steel (mild)
 D. Aluminum
 E. Bronze
 F. Cast Iron
 G. None of the above


7.
Select the equipment you have experience repairing and maintaining in safe operating condition in an actual work environment (not for personal reasons):
 A. Hand tools
 B. Power tools
 C. Mower
 D. Weed eater
 E. Chainsaw
 F. Sandblasting equipment
 G. Backhoe
 H. Loader
 I. Tractor
 J. Dump truck
 K. None of the above


8.
Select the response that best describes your work experience operating heavy mobile power equipment such as front-end loaders, backhoes, and excavators.
 I have no experience operating front-end loaders, backhoes or excavators.
 I have work experience operating heavy mobile equipment under the guidance of an experienced operator. I can operate heavy equipment in open areas to accomplish routine work such as grade rough roads, compact building pads, dig trenches, etc. I follow close instruction to ensure safe equipment operation and when working in confined restricted spaces or difficult field conditions.
 I have extensive work experience operating at least one type of heavy mobile equipment listed to complete work such as loading and placing fill materials, digging trenches, or leveling or smoothing surfaces on level or rolling terrain. I follow safe operating practices in maneuvering and positioning the equipment to ensure safe clearance of structures and while working in adverse weather conditions.
 I have extensive work experience operating all of the heavy mobile equipment listed. My work requires skilled equipment operation on rough, steep and winding mountainous terrain to build earth embankments and grade roads to specifications. I determine the method and work sequence to safely operate in adverse and changing weather conditions and to maneuver and position the equipment in confined and steep work areas.
 I have extensive work experience operating modern and technologically advanced heavy mobile equipment with computerized controls and improved hydraulics and electronics in all terrains and weather conditions. I determine the work method and sequence to efficiently and safely operate in adverse and changing weather conditions and to maneuver and position the equipment in confined and steep work areas. I am often consulted by other equipment operators for guidance in operating in difficult field conditions and in the operation of computerized control equipment.


9.
Select the responses that describe the type of CDL currently held and which additional endorsements.
 A. Class A
 B. Class B
 C. Air Brake endorsement
 D. Hazardous Materials endorsement
 E. Tanker endorsement
 F. Combination endorsement
 G. None of the above


10.
Select the response that best reflects your experience operating a 15 ton or greater mobile crane.
 I have not had education, training or experience in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


11.
Select the responses that describe the situations you have performed work while operating gasoline and diesel-powered heavy mobile equipment.
 A. Rough grading for roads
 B. Building earth embankments
 C. Cover and compact landfill
 D. Stock pile of materials
 E. Cut fire breaks
 F. Compact building pads
 G. Lay asphalt
 H. Finish grade
 I. Excavate trench between utilities
 J. Haul and place materials with 10 cubic yard or greater end dump truck
 K. Haul and place materials with 20 cubic yard or greater belly dump trailer
 L. None of the above


12.
Which of the following activities have you performed which required you to read and interpret blueprints, drawings, and manufacturer's instructions?
 A. I have experience fabricating parts using blueprints or drawings.
 B. I have experience performing major repairs on power system equipment or any type of hydraulic/mechanical equipment using blueprints, drawings, and/or manufacturer's instructions.
 C. I have experience using construction or electrical blueprints, drawings, or instructions.
 D. I have taken technical coursework in blueprint reading, drafting, etc.
 E. I have used manufacturer's instructions to develop specifications for the acquisition of equipment or parts.
 F. I have used equipment maintenance manuals to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules.
 G. I have used blueprints to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 H. I have used drawings to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 I. I have used manufacturer's instructions to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on equipment.
 J. None of the above


13.
Select the response that best describes your skill in using standing operating procedures.
 A. I have used these procedures but would need help or close supervision
 B. I have used these procedures to perform common and simple tasks with limited supervision
 C. I have used these procedures to diagnose routine problems and perform common tasks without supervision
 D. I have used these procedures to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks
 E. I have used these diagrams to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks and I have used these diagrams to instruct others in their use
 F. None of the above


14.
From the following list, select all of the safety standards, guidelines, and/or procedures for which you have experience, education, or training.
 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (HECP) or Lock out tag out (LOTO)
 C. Basic Electricity in the Workplace
 D. Hearing Conservation
 E. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 F. Respiratory Protection
 G. Confined Space
 H. Hazardous Communications/Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS)
 I. Spill Prevention
 J. Fire Extinguishers
 K. Infectious Control (Bloodborne Pathogens)
 L. Emergency Response Planning
 M. Personal Fall Protection
 N. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 O. First Aid
 P. Hazardous Waste
 Q. Asbestos Awareness
 R. Workplace Safety and Health Inspections
 S. Construction Safety Standards
 T. Boating
 U. None of the above


15.
Select the response(s) that describe the types and kinds of hazards or potential danger you have worked with?
 A. Operate vehicles and heavy equipment over narrow roads
 B. Operate vehicles and heavy equipment over winding roads
 C. Backing vehicles and heavy equipment in confined spaces
 D. Spotting vehicles
 E. Operate vehicles and heavy equipment over rough terrain
 F. Operate vehicles and heavy equipment where obstacles have limited the visibility
 G. Operate vehicles and heavy equipment in adverse weather conditions
 H. None of the above


16.
Select the response(s) that describes your knowledge and experience in repairing and replacing mechanical systems and equipment for a large facility.
 A. I have knowledge and experience with heavy equipment such as dump trucks, loaders, and back hoes.
 B. I have knowledge and experience of rigging and crane operations.
 C. I have experience in interpreting drawings prepared by engineers used to maintain equipment.
 D. I have experience in the use of process instrumentation to diagnose problems and recommend repairs.
 E. I have experience with the repair and replacement of hydraulic systems.
 F. I have experience in writing project manuals and/or documents or Standard Operating Procedures.
 G. I have knowledge of and experience working with auxiliary equipment systems such as pumps, piping systems, compressors, pneumatic systems, air conditioning systems.
 H. I have experience with managing facility evacuation in the event of fire alarms.
 I. I have experience with emergency response plans
 J. None of the above


17.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙