Position Title
Purchasing Agent
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12968695-NE-DG-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service?

Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8
9


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-7, GS-8, FPL GS-9 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-7 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-7 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-6 in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: Experience purchasing a wide variety of materials, supplies, services, construction, and/or equipment using SAP and/or other open market methods. Experience analyzing information for pre-solicitation packages and, through independent research, uses specialized technical knowledge to validate the accuracy, completeness, and reasonableness of pre solicitation packages. Experience independently communicating information to suppliers with suggested revisions and/or resolutions.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-8 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-8 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-7 in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: Monitoring contract administration until final delivery and payments are completed and the contract is closed and retired Evaluating contractor performance (i.e., through telephone conversations, correspondence, reports, vouchers) Providing advice to purchasing agents/contract specialists during the course of soliciting offers
 My experience does not match the choice above


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-9 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-9 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-8 in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis Experience providing support to customers by obtaining the goods and services requested. Experience analyzing all assigned requests for procurements received for adequacy, completeness, clarity and funding. Experience with various purchasing procedures such a Acquisitions laws and regulations, the Federal Property and Administrative Service Act (FPASA), and the Federal Acquisitions Regulations governing purchasing work
 My experience does not match the choice above


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.



4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.



 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙