Position Title
Financial Management Specialist
Agency
Farm Production and Conservation (FPAC) Business Center
Announcement Number
FPCBC-26-12972633-DE-CM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kansas City, MO
 B. Raleigh, NC
 C. Fort Worth, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select item INSTRUCTIONS: Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. Any experience claimed in response to the following questions MUST be supported by information in your application. This information must be SPECIFIC, (i.e.,duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating


1.
Select the statement that best reflects your training, education and/or experience  to perform duties as a GS-0501-07 Financial Management Specialist. Transcripts must be provided with your application to validate that you meet the degree/coursework requirements. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have at least one or more years of full-time specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience not gained through federal service that has equipped you with the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience is defined as: A basic knowledge of administrative practices and procedures; The ability to support and apply organizational policies and guidelines; and Skill in written and oral communication to share information clearly and effectively.
 I have one full year of graduate level education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: You must submit copies of your college transcripts.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience (equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level) and graduate level education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: You must submit copies of your college transcripts.
 I have superior academic achievement.
 I do not possess the requirements described above.


2.
Select the statement that best reflects your training, education and/or experience to perform duties as a GS-0501-09 Financial Management Specialist. Transcripts must be provided with your application to validate that you meet the degree/coursework requirements. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have at least One or more years of full-time specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience not gained through federal service that has equipped you with the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience is defined as providing basic financial management guidance; supporting accounting and financial management staff in routine tasks; and researching and interpreting financial policy, regulations and procedures.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. NOTE: You must submit copies of your college transcripts.
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience described in the job opportunity announcement; however, and I have at least one year of progressively higher level graduate education, but have not obtained a master's or equivalent graduate degree. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education. Note: You must submit a copy of transcripts.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the statement that best reflects your training, education and/or experience to perform duties as a GS-0501-11 Financial Management Specialist. Transcripts must be provided with your application to validate that you meet the degree/coursework requirements. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume.
 I have at least one or more years of full-time specialized work experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience not gained through federal service that has equipped you with the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience is defined as: Knowledge of fundamental principles, theories, and methods in accounting, finance, or statistics to support the implementation of financial policies, procedures, and system processes; Familiarity with standard financial management and analytical techniques to monitor and report on the financial status of assigned programs or tasks; Ability to interpret and apply financial management policies, regulations, principles, and procedures to conduct basic studies, reviews, and evaluations of financial management activities.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. NOTE: You must submit copies of your college transcripts.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (beyond what is required for a master's degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading to a Ph.D.). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: You must submit copies of your college transcripts.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙