Position Title
Investigative Analyst
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-26-13002755-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
I am currently employed as a permanent, career or career-conditional employee in the competitive service, HOWEVER, I have not held the full performance level of this position.
Note: Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1")
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you wish to be considered under a CTAP (Career Transition Assistance Plan) eligibility? You may qualify for CTAP eligibility if all of the statements apply to you:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy.
You have been (or will be) involuntarily separated from the agency advertising this position, due to a reduction-in-force.
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position separated from.
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position separated from.
Your last performance rating of record is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
For more information about CTAP, please see the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility for CTAP:
You must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must also submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing position, tenure code, grade & step, and full name/DOB/SSN.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am a current or former, permanent, Federal employee in the competitive service WITH the SAME or HIGHER full performance level of this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the competitive service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the competitive service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former competitive service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Orange, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Chicago, IL
 G. Boston, MA
 H. Kansas City, MO
 I. New York, NY
 J. Philadelphia, PA
 K. Dallas, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


Assessment 1
Please select any response below which indicate how you qualify for the position. You will only be considered for those that you select and provide proper documentation. This position has No Known Promotion Potential.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you current Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General federal employee serving on a permanent Career or a Career-Conditional Appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work as an Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-09. Please mark only one response. SELECTING MORE THAN ONE RESPONSE OR NO RESPONSE AT ALL MAY MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which provided the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate: (1) Gathering, researching, and analyzing various types of information from a variety of sources to develop correspondence from investigative information;(2) Collaborates with others to obtain facts and documents and communicate findings with internal and external stakeholders; AND (3) Applying facts to applicable authorities and using databases to prepare comprehensive files in a management system on investigative findings.
 I have successfully completed two (2) full academic years of graduate level education or completion of all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or completion of all requirements for an LL.B or J.D. degree. Graduate education must be related to the position.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that is directly related to this position that combined meets the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not possess the above and therefore I do not qualify for the Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-09 position.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work as an Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-11. Please mark only one response. SELECTING MORE THAN ONE RESPONSE OR NO RESPONSE AT ALL MAY MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 A. I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09. Specialized experience is demonstrated experience in (1) Plans and conducts case analysis to gather the information needed to support investigations; (2) Collaborates with others to solicit and/or generate critical case file materials to support health care investigations; AND (3) Reviews and analyzes applicable legal authorities to process recommendations for agency implementation of administrative sanctions.
 B. I have successfully completed three (3) full academic years of graduate level education or completion of all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent graduate degree, or completion of all requirements for an LL.M degree. Graduate education must be related to the position.
 C. I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience that is directly related to this position that combined meets the qualification requirements for this position.
 D. I do not possess the above and therefore I do not qualify for the Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-11 position.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work as an Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-12. Please mark only one response. SELECTING MORE THAN ONE RESPONSE OR NO RESPONSE AT ALL MAY MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11. Specialized experience is demonstrated experience in (1) Independently researching and investigating facts and applicable legal authorities to evaluate and make recommendations about health care program exclusions or reinstatements; (2) Drafting administrative action letters and providing support in strategic planning, coordination and evaluation; AND (3) Provides advice, guidance, and recommendations on methods and practices for operation of health care exclusion program.
 I do not possess the above and therefore I do not qualify for the Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-12 position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in my questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙