Position Title
Executive Staff Advisor
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
IMP-12984069-26-GM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold? 
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a permanent position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held the full performance level of this position on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Eloy, AZ
 AB. Florence, AZ
 AW. Phoenix, AZ
 AX. Tucson, AZ
 AY. Adelanto, CA
 AZ. Concord, CA
 BA. Imperial, CA
 BB. Los Angeles, CA
 BC. Sacramento, CA
 BD. San Diego, CA
 BE. San Diego County, CA
 BF. San Francisco, CA
 BG. Santa Ana, CA
 BH. Van Nuys, CA
 BI. Aurora, CO
 BJ. Denver, CO
 BK. Hartford, CT
 BL. Miami, FL
 BM. Miami Gardens, FL
 BN. Orlando, FL
 BO. Atlanta, GA
 BP. Atlanta, GA
 BQ. Lumpkin, GA
 BR. Honolulu, HI
 BS. Chicago, IL
 BT. Indianapolis, IN
 B. Baton Rouge, LA
 C. Jena, LA
 D. New Orleans, LA
 E. Oakdale, LA
 F. Baltimore, MD
 G. Hyattsville, MD
 H. Boston, MA
 I. Chelmsford, MA
 J. Detroit, MI
 K. Fort Snelling, MN
 L. Kansas City, MO
 M. Omaha, NE
 N. Las Vegas, NV
 O. Elizabeth, NJ
 P. Newark, NJ
 Q. Chaparral, NM
 R. Batavia, NY
 S. Buffalo, NY
 T. Napanoch, NY
 U. New York, NY
 V. Charlotte, NC
 W. Saipan, Mariana Island, MP
 X. Cleveland, OH
 Y. Portland, OR
 Z. Philadelphia, PA
 AA. Guaynabo, PR
 AC. Memphis, TN
 AD. Conroe, TX
 AE. Dallas County, TX
 AF. El Paso County, TX
 AG. Fort Worth, TX
 AH. Harlingen, TX
 AI. Houston, TX
 AJ. Houston, TX
 AK. Houston, TX
 AL. Laredo, TX
 AM. Los Fresnos, TX
 AN. Pearsall, TX
 AO. San Antonio, TX
 AP. West Valley City, UT
 AQ. Annandale, VA
 AR. Falls Church, VA
 AS. Richmond, VA
 AT. Sterling, VA
 AU. Seattle, WA
 AV. Tacoma, WA


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


1.
Please select the response below that best reflects your specialized experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for a GS-14 Executive Staff Advisor?
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector: attending high-level leadership meetings and capturing critical policy changes, operational mandates, and cross-component directives to deliver concise, actionable briefings to senior executives; translating complex, mission-critical EOIR requirements into balanced and effective administrative support strategies; coordinating with multiple DOJ offices and stakeholders to align processes, resolve operational issues, and support mission-critical objectives; designing, maintaining, and interpreting a high-level executive dashboard to inform leadership decision-making; tracking key performance indicators, including budget burn rates, procurement timelines, facility capacity, and HR onboarding metrics; and reviewing workforce metrics to ensure recruitment pipelines, staffing availability, and retention strategies support evolving caseload demands.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙