Position Title
Data Scientist
Agency
Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development
Announcement Number
DHA-13066053-26-CF
Open Period
Sep 30, 2026 to Oct 13, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)? Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)? Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed. A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No
2.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO
 Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 Office of Housing
 Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 Office of the Secretary
 Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
5.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
Min Quals
1.
Select the one statement that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement for the Data Science Series (1560).
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science, or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study that is appropriate for the position. (Must submit transcripts that reflect relevant coursework.)
 I have a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours or equivalent) in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science, or field directly related to the position, plus additional education or appropriate experience. The quality of the combination of education and experience is sufficient to demonstrate that I possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform work in the occupation, and is comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of a full 4-year course of study with a major in the appropriate field. In addition to courses in the major and related fields, a typical college degree would have included courses that involved analysis, writing, critical thinking, research, etc. These courses would have provided an applicant with skills and abilities sufficient to perform progressively more responsible work in the occupation. Therefore, creditable experience should have demonstrated similarly appropriate skills or abilities needed to perform the work of the occupation. (Must be reflected in your resume, and must submit transcripts that reflect relevant coursework.)
 My education and experience are not reflected in the above statements, and I do not qualify for this position.
2.
Select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the qualification requirement for this GS-13 level position.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-12 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that included Collecting data through multiple mechanisms (e.g., surveys or systems) for data analysis; AND Preparing and delivering technical/narrative reports for making program decisions; AND Using statistical analysis to develop, manage, and maintain models, dashboards, and reports.
 My experience is not described above.
