Position Title
Examination Specialist/Senior Examination Specialist (Modeling)
Agency
Federal Housing Finance Agency
Announcement Number
DBR-26-10-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you a current or former FHFA employee who held a career or career-conditional appointment in a position at the EL-15 level or below who has received either: a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed geographic reassignment or relocation outside the commuting area; and who meets the definition of a surplus or displaced employee under 5 CFR §330.602?


If yes, confirm that:

• you are located within the same local commuting area as the vacancy; AND
• you are applying to a position at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
• your most recent performance rating of record is at least Fully Successful or equivalent. For additional information, please review the USAJOBS Help Center.


To verify eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation, such as: your Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice (must include your most recent performance rating, if available); a copy of your most recent performance appraisal, if the RIF notice does not include your rating; and a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50).

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a US citizen? If so, you can apply under this eligibility, without having worked for the Federal Government before.  Veteran's preference applies.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for expressing interest in the Examination Specialist/Senior Examination Specialist (Modeling) position located in the Division of FHLBank Regulation (DBR), Office of Credit Risk, AMA and Investments Modeling Branch at the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). You will be evaluated on your responses to this assessment questionnaire; then, we will compare your responses against your resume and supporting documentation. Please Note: Your resume MUST clearly identify the dates that support your experience (month/year) and the number of hours per week worked for each position.


1.
Basic Requirement: To be eligible for the 0570 series, you must meet one of the three basic entry requirements as described below. Please select the response that describes your education or experience.

If you select option "A" you must provide transcripts with your application. Failure to provide transcripts will remove you from the hiring process.
 Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing, or other fields related to the position. -OR-
 Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: (1) Work requiring a thorough knowledge and the application of commercial accounting or auditing principles and practices (but less than full professional accounting knowledge) with a financial institution. (2) Examining or auditing such financial institutions as savings and loan associations, savings or commercial banking institutions or trust companies, farm credit associations, or Federal or State credit unions. (3) Professional accounting or auditing work that provided a broad knowledge of the application of accounting or auditing principles and practices. (4) Work that provided a thorough knowledge of Federal and State laws applicable to the type of financial institution involved (e.g., savings and loan associations, Bank for Cooperatives, savings or commercial banks, investment institutions, etc.), and of the operations and practices of such institutions. -OR-
 Certificate: A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) obtained through written examination in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia meets the GS-5 level requirements. Applicants with such certificates may also qualify for higher grade levels based on their education and/or experience.
 I do not meet the basic entry requirement described above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications EL-12: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-12 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-12 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-11 or equivalent demonstrating skill in performing work in most or all of the following: (1) Participating in credit risk modeling in one of the following areas: secured and unsecured credit, single-family mortgages, investment portfolios; AND (2) Conducting reviews, examinations, or analysis of financial institutions, with a focus on credit risk modeling, including assessing secured and unsecured credit exposure, investment portfolios, and model-driven risk measures to assess risk and support supervisory or business decisions; AND (3) Analyzing financial, portfolio, or market data using tools such as Excel, STATA, SQL, MATLAB, Tableau, or similar applications to identify trends, evaluate portfolio performance or model results, and support assessments of credit risk; AND (4) Preparing or contributing to written reports, briefings, or summaries to communicate findings and support decision-making; AND/OR (5) Reviewing policies, procedures, model documentation, or internal controls to help assess governance, risk management practices, and compliance with guidance; AND/OR (6) Monitoring trends and advances in credit risk, credit risk modeling, industry guidance, regulatory expectations, and risk-based examinations of large, complex financial institutions. -OR-
 I do not possess the specialized experience required at the level described above.


3.
Minimum Qualifications EL-13: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-13 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-13 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-12 or equivalent demonstrating skill in performing work in most or all of the following: (1) Working extensively with credit risk modeling in one of the following areas: secured and unsecured credit, single-family mortgages, investment portfolios; AND (2) Performing and conducting reviews, examinations, or monitoring of financial institutions, with a focus on credit risk modeling, including assessing secured and unsecured credit exposure, investment portfolios, and model-driven risk measures, to assess risk and support supervisory or business decisions; AND (3) Overseeing and analyzing financial, portfolio, or market data using tools such as Excel, STATA, SQL, MATLAB, Tableau, or similar applications to identify trends, evaluate portfolio performance or model results, and identify emerging risks; AND (4) Writing reports, memoranda, or analytical summaries to clearly present findings and recommend actions to stakeholders; AND/OR (5) Evaluating model documentation, methodologies, assumptions, and internal controls, including model validation results or governance practices, to assess effectiveness and identify weaknesses or gaps; AND/OR (6) Monitoring and tracking trends and advances in credit risk, credit risk modeling, industry guidance, regulatory expectations, and risk-based examinations of large, complex financial institutions, including experience developing new credit risk monitoring and assessment reports. -OR-
 I do not possess the specialized experience required at the level described above.


4.
Minimum Qualifications EL-14: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-14 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-14 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-13 or equivalent demonstrating skill in performing work in all of the following: (1) Serving as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) in credit risk modeling in one of the following areas: secured and unsecured credit, single-family mortgages, investment portfolios; AND (2) Leading complex reviews, examinations, or analysis of financial institutions, with emphasis on credit risk modeling, including assessing secured and unsecured credit exposure, investment portfolios, and model-driven risk measures, to evaluate overall risk and inform strategy or supervisory decisions.; AND (3) Evaluating models, assumptions, performance, and relevant market or economic conditions, including reviewing model methodologies and validation processes, to identify model risk issues and emerging risks; AND (4) Developing approaches, plans, or strategies, such as designing risk assessments, monitoring frameworks, or analytical methodologies, to evaluate complex credit and model risk; AND (5) Developing new credit risk monitoring and assessment reports using data management and modeling skills to identify highly complex current and emerging credit risks; AND (6) Advising leadership or stakeholders on credit risk, model risk, and related issues, including presenting findings and recommending corrective actions, to influence decision-making. -OR-
 I do not possess the specialized experience required at the level described above.


5.
Describe your experience completing supervision, reviews, or examination of credit risk models used by large and/or complex financial institutions.



6.
Describe three credit or model risk related topics/data points that may impact an FHLBank's (or a similar institution's) credit risk management activities.



7.
Describe your experience using large datasets and the tools used to manage and complete analysis of those datasets.



8.
Provide an example of your experience developing narrative-based deliverables detailing evaluation of investment or mortgage portfolio credit risk model results and/or modeling activities.



9.
Describe a time you had to explain or defend your technical conclusions or risk-based recommendations to stakeholders who had a different perspective. How did you handle the situation and what was the outcome?



10.
Certification of Application: I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. If my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will rate my application based on the level of competency demonstrated in my resume. (If you select "No" to this question, you will be removed from consideration)
 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙