Position Title
Child and Youth Program Cook
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0212 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Cook. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in food preparation and procedures?
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with preparing a full range of food options?
 I have 2+ years of experience preparing a full range of food options in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience preparing a full range of food options in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience preparing a full range of food options in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience preparing a full range of food options in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience preparing a full range of food options.
 I have less than 1 year of experience preparing a full range of food options.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in following food sanitation standards and procedures to prevent contamination (e.g., cleaning equipment that has been used for raw food before further use and using chemical sanitizers)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food sanitation.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food sanitation.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have in food preparation principles, including techniques and procedures for developing new and revised recipes, and preparing and cooking food in large quantities?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food preparation principles, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food preparation principles, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food preparation principles, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food preparation principles, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food preparation principles.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food preparation principles.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
What size of DoD food service program do you have experience in supporting?
 I have experience in supporting a large size DoD food service program (200 or more children).
 I have experience in supporting a medium size DoD food service program (101 to 199 children).
 I have experience in supporting a small size DoD food service program (up to 100 children).
 I have no experience in the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Are you SOFA sponsored?

*Proof must be submitted at the time of application such as Military orders OR Civilian Letter of Employment with your name listed and Dependent entry of approval/ Command Sponsorship if applicable.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙