Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command
Announcement Number
SDST-26-12973470-DCIPS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS) Employee

Do you meet the following?
current Department of the Army DCIPS employee; and
occupy a permanent position without time limitation.
Supporting documentation:  You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action that reflects "1" or "2" in block 24 (Tenure), "2" in block 34 (Position Occupied), and, if applicable, your highest grade held on a permanent basis along with your application/resume package.

To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

 Yes
 No


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This is a Title 10 Excepted Service position covered by the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS). Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a DCIPS position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a two year trial period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V2005. While serving a trial period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year trial period?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Human Resources Specialist, GG-0201-09 Target 13, position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Human Resources Specialist at the GG-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GG/GS-07 grade in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as: 1. Experience interpreting civilian human resources policies, procedures, or regulations to process or support personnel actions. AND 2. Experience planning or evaluating human resources projects, assignments, or processes. AND 3. Experience identifying and resolving human resources problems by researching and applying laws, regulations, or established guidance. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GG/GS-07).
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Business Administration or Human Resources Management. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application).
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (18 semester hours) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application).
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙