Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic- Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-474909-12843036-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Tuesday, December 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a Maintenance Mechanic, WG-4749-09. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Read all of the statements below, and then select the response based on your highest level of experience and/or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Maintenance Mechanic. WG-4749-09.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks including planning, computing, and laying carpentry projects; surface preparation and coating methods including special finishing techniques, and paints and thinning additives; operating, and maintaining painting and woodworking power and hand tools/equipment; constructing, installing, repairing, and modifying wood structures; and tinting, toning, matching, and blending coating materials. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks including planning, computing, and laying carpentry projects; surface preparation and coating methods including special finishing techniques, and paints and thinning additives; operating, and maintaining painting and woodworking power and hand tools/equipment; constructing, installing, repairing, and modifying wood structures; and tinting, toning, matching, and blending coating materials. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks including surface preparation and coating methods; operating and maintaining painting and woodworking power and hand tools/equipment. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks including surface preparation and coating or I have received training on this type of work.
 I do not have on-the-job training or the abilities described above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


ALL APPLICANTS MUST COMPLETE THIS SECTION: As previously explained, your ratings in this Application Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probationary period, or other disciplinary action, including termination. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: Understand this warning; have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and verified that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙