Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12876753-AR-26-021 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 02, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of CW4 - CW5 or O1 - O4?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of CW4 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades O1 - O4.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of CW4 - CW5 or O1 - O4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates that the candidate has the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess 36 months of experience or training diagnosing, repairing, overhauling, and modifying more complex vehicles, equipment, and more complicated systems. Experience which has provided a thorough knowledge of diagnostic equipment. Experience applying independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems. Experienced in testing, inspecting, and evaluating the work performed on vehicles, equipment and systems. In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you possess 36 months of experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a time when you were responsible for the overall allocation of personnel and resources for an organization on a long-term basis (one year or more). In your response, explain how you analyzed work plans from subordinate supervisors, adjusted for unanticipated or emergency requirements, and communicated project status, budget estimates, and recommendations for improvements to higher-level management.


4.
Provide an example of a time you were responsible for coordinating and directing multiple work units through subordinate supervisors. How did you explain work requirements, set deadlines, and balance the workload between the groups? Please include how you analyzed production records to make operational adjustments and what steps you took to encourage employees to meet quality and quantity standards.


5.
Describe your experience managing the full range of personnel actions for subordinate supervisors. Detail your process for conducting performance appraisals, determining long-range training needs, and administering programs like incentive awards and quality assurance. Additionally, explain how you would resolve a complex employee grievance that has been escalated to you, ensuring that labor-management and Equal Opportunity program principles are upheld.


6.
Detail your experience in developing, publishing, and ensuring employee compliance with standing operating procedures. Provide a specific example of how you implemented procedures that addressed Federal regulatory requirements for Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA), property accountability, and Force Protection. How did you ensure all subordinates were properly trained, qualified, and equipped to adhere to these standards?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙