Position Title
SECURITY SPECIALIST (PROTECTION)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ME-12951041-AR-T32-26-062 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to all questions. For each, choose the response that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application.


1.
Do you have the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines and its applicable Security Series career level, as cited on page two. Applicants must have the experiences, education, or training that demonstrates the ability to follow directions, to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures.
 Yes, I possess the experience listed above.
 No, I do not have the experience listed above.


2.
Ability to clearly enunciate English without impediment of speech that would interfere or prohibit; effective two-way radio or telephone communication.


3.
Ability to write English in reports and presentation formats.


4.
Ability to communicate -orally and in writing- clearly and effectively.


5.
Ability to assess body language and perceive immediate risk levels.


6.
Skilled in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting technical material.


7.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I possess the experience listed above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙