Position Title
LABORER
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13037310-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Laborer position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Laborer duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex maintenance trade tasks, including but not limited to landscaping, carpentry, plumbing, masonry, and other similar duties. I can assist journey level crafts working involving a knowledge of elementary trade practices. I can operate light motor vehicles, boats, and motorized equipment as required to move, relocate, etc., items from one location to another. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of laboring tasks. I can receive and store warehouse supplies by using hand trucks and dollies; operate vehicles or motorized equipment as required to move or relocate equipment, materials, supplies, trash, and other debris; use hand tools such as picks, shovels, forks, rakes and saws in the maintenance and repair of roads, grounds and project areas; collects trash and garbage; cleans up after construction and/or major overhaul and repair jobs; operate hand or small power mowers, air or electric scaling tools; and dig ditches and level small areas to grade with hand tools. Clean by sweeping, scrubbing, dusting, and polishing floors, woodwork, windows, walls, furniture and washrooms. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common laboring tasks. I can load and unload equipment, materials, or supplies to and from trucks and cars; use hand tools such as picks, shovels, forks, rakes and saws in the maintenance and repair of roads, grounds and project areas; clean up after construction or repair jobs; and operate hand or small power mowers. Perform grounds maintenance tasks such as sweeping walkways, shoveling snow, trim trees, or mows lawn areas. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance, or I have received training on the use of basic hand tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙