Position Title
Auditor
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
OIG-26-12959901 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan(CTAP).

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility.
Note: Your proof of eligibility must show the position, grade level, and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated, and your full performance level or career ladder. To ensure you fulfill this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility. Visit OPM's ICTAP or CTAP page for more information on eligibility and required documentation.

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets one of the following Merit Promotion eligibilities:
Current career or career-conditional federal employee applying for a PROMOTION or TRANSFER to a position with a higher grade or pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
Former career or career-conditional federal employee with "Status" applying for REINSTATEMENT to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
Note: Also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy. Visit USAJOBS for more information on eligibility.

If you are separated from Federal Government employment, you may obtain a copy of your SF-50 via the Federal Records Center, National Archives and Records Administration.

Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as a status applicant and/or reinstatement eligible?
 Yes
 No


5.

Are you interested in, and eligible for, a non-competitive appointment as a Military Spouse Eligible under E.O.13832 and P.L. 115-232?

To be eligible, you must be the spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty, the spouse of a 100 percent disabled member of the armed forces, or the spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces.

Required Documents:

For a spouse of a member of armed forces: Active duty orders for your spouse or other documentation from the military showing that your spouse is on active duty, documentation verifying marriage (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage).
Spouse of a 100% disabled member of the armed forces or deceased member of the armed forces: Documentation showing your spouse was released, discharged, or retired from active duty due to a service-connected disability of a rating of 100% or discharged due to death, documentation verifying marriage (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage), a statement certifying that you are the un-remarried widow or widower of the service member (if applicable)
Based on the above, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for a non-competitive appointment as a military spouse? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes
 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability [5CFR 213.3102(u)] appointment?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities.

Check the required documents section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you: 
Have a rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
Retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (Copy indicating character of service), or other proof of your service which includes the character of service.
Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Armed Services and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15. 

For more information, please see: https://www.opm.gov/fedshirevets/hiring-officials/strategic-recruitment-and-hiring/veterans/
 Yes
 No


9.
Do you claim veterans' preference? 

A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran(XP)
G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
 Yes
 No


10.
This position is located in Alexandria, Virginia. Please confirm your acknowledgment that this position requires in-person attendance at the Alexandria, Virginia headquarters.
 Yes, I am aware this position is in person at the Alexandria, VA, NSF OIG Headquarters.
 No, I do not acknowledge that this position is in person at the Alexandria, VA, NSF OIG Headquarters.


11.

The GS-0511 job series has an education requirement. I certify that I meet one of the following: 

 

NOTE: Transcripts are required as part of the application if for this position

 Degree: accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.
 Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not meet these qualification requirements.


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12
13


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙