Position Title
AIRCRAFT SURVIVAL FLIGHT EQUIPMENT REPAIRER (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12956444-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Aircraft Survival Flight Equipment Repairer ,WG-4818-10 position.
 I have experience or training which has demonstrated knowledge of aviation life support equipment. Experience reading and interpreting military manuals. Experience in supply procedures and property accountability. Experience collecting information and presenting it to various sized groups. Experience in planning a functional shop maintenance program is essential. Knowledge and understanding of all aircrew flight equipment and chemical/biological defense equipment utilized by the units aircrew to ensure aircrew flight equipment/ components meet airworthiness criteria, operate within specified tolerances and in the proper sequence, and are mission ready to support the requirements of day-to-day operation as well as sustained critical combat operations. Ability to inspect, test, calibrate, certify, evaluate, troubleshoot, disassemble, repair, overhaul, assemble, replace, as necessary, and issue life support parts and equipment. Ability to install, remove, and inspect all aircrew flight equipment on the unit aircraft. Ability to utilize a variety of complex, state of the art diagnostic testers/systems/specialty tools to test, troubleshoot, and repair all aircrew flight equipment utilized by the unit. Ability to perform precision soldering on flexible circuit boards to repair/replace defective parts. Ability and certification to plan, organize, develop, direct, implement, conduct, and evaluate formal academic classroom and technical instruction on a wide variety of life support topics to provide initial and recurring training for all aircrew and passengers. Knowledge of and ability to utilize multiple computer main frame programs/data bases. Knowledge of materials handling, inventorying, and supply procedures to store and maintain adequate supplies of aircrew flight function parts and equipment. Knowledge of and certification in handling, shipping, storing, and ordering multiple hazardous materials to include munitions/ammunition assets. Skill and ability in the operation of materials handling equipment utilized in receipt, storage, and shipment of the unit life support supplies and equipment. Ability to plan unscheduled work when detailed specifications are not available and take measurements for articles of various shapes and sizes. Knowledge of fabrication mathematics, to include fractions, equations, and plane measurements to make problematical calculations. Expertise to fit items to spaces or locations with unique parameters, unusual shapes, or obstructions. Thorough knowledge of all types of common fibers, blends, fabrics, and finishes to include a knowledge of performance and handling characteristics such as dimensional stability, abrasion resistance, and heat sensitivity, to select materials to meet particular needs. Ability to substitute materials when the precise type or weight desired is not available.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


2.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am a current military member of another component immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a prior member eligible to immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience.


3.
Are you a E-4/SrA not to exceed E-6/TSgt? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard as a E-4/SrA not to exceed E-6/TSgt.

 Yes, I am a E-4/SrA not to exceed E-6/TSgt.
 I am a civilian with no military experience or training.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

Compatible MOS/Branch/AFSC: 1P051 / 1P071

 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your rank and AFSC/MOS in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? -OR- Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)?

 Yes
 No


8.
Please type YES or NO in the space provided below. If yes, please include start and end date for your orders and submit a copy of orders with your application. Civilians should type "N/A".



9.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙