Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
OC-DHRADMDC-26-12954332-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to Jun 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Seaside, CA
 B. Alexandria, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 For the PROGRAM MANAGER, GS-0340-13, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) or above in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Knowledge of program and financial management policies to support the implementation of assigned IT programs and their goals; Experience in the planning and execution of multiple projects, including developing project plans, tracking performance metrics, and providing status updates; Ability to analyze program requirements, identify risks, and develop recommendations to mitigate impacts on cost, schedule, and performance under supervision; Experience researching and analyzing data to support the development of business cases for IT projects and to maintain knowledge of relevant technology and trends; Must meet Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) requirements for a Level III certification in the Information Technology career field within 24 months of appointment
 For the PROGRAM MANAGER, GS-0340-14, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-13) or above in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Expert knowledge of Department of Defense (DoD) policies and procedures for program management, financial management, and investment management to ensure the successful implementation of program goals; Experience managing the full lifecycle of complex Information Technology (IT) portfolios, including developing long-range work plans, formulating acquisition strategies, and overseeing program execution from inception to retirement; Demonstrated ability to engage with and advise high-level stakeholders, such as senior executives and military officials, to develop program objectives, build consensus, and influence strategic decisions; Experience applying expert knowledge of business systems requirements and acquisition processes to provide analysis, prepare position papers, and support the formulation of high-level programs and policies; Must meet Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) requirements for a Level III certification in the Information Technology career field within 24 months of appointment.
 My experience is not reflected in the statements above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙