Position Title
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADMDC-26-12902317-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Seaside, CA
 B. San Antonio, TX
 C. Alexandria, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an IT Specialist (PLCYPLN) position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 GS-13: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience using product, project, program and technical skills in the provision of overall direction and guidance for the development, acquisition, testing, product improvement, and fielding of assigned systems. Reviewing and implementing IT program formulation, planning, deployment, and execution of technology. Communicates program strategies, goals and status to stakeholders, management and higher-level leadership. Defines the product strategy and roadmap.
 GS-14: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Leading product, project, program and technical skills in the provision of overall direction and guidance for the development, acquisition, testing, product improvement and fielding of assigned systems. Providing continuous oversight of IT program formulation, planning, deployment, and execution of technology. Oversees briefings that contain program strategies, goals and status to stakeholders, management and higher-level leadership. Defines the product strategy and roadmap.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙