Position Title
Occupational Therapy Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12995678-26-MD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Occupational Therapist Assistant GS-0636-5/6/7/8, position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position..

To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: OTA candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English [in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).]

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Individuals must meet at least one of the requirements below:

Associate's [or higher] degree in Occupational Therapy from a college or university accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) of the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA).

OR

Completion of a military training program in an OTA program accredited by the ACOTE.

Do you possess  an Associate's [or higher] degree in Occupational Therapy or completion of a military training program accredited by ACOTE?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Associate's degree or completed a military OTA training program? 
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Certification: OTAs must have written documentation that they have passed the entry-level certification examination for OTAs administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT)

Do you have written documentation  that you have passed the entry-level certification examination for OTAs administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT)
 Yes, I do have written documentation  that I have passed the entry-level certification examination for OTAs administered by the National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCO
 I graduated from an ACOTE approved occupational therapy assistant program but do not possess the NBCOT certification which may be waived as described in the VA qualification standard.
 No I do not have Certification and do not meet the possible waiver in the VA Qualification standards


3a.
 Please provide your certification information. 

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


4.
Licensure: OTAs must hold a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a State, Territory, a Commonwealth of the United States (i.e. Puerto Rico) or in the District of Columbia

Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a State, Territory, a Commonwealth of the United States (i.e. Puerto Rico) or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy
 I graduated from an ACOTE approved occupational therapy assistant program but do not possess the NBCOT certification and/or licensure requirements, which may be waived as described in the VA qualification standard.
 I do not meet the Licensure requirement


4a.
Please provide your license information. VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for OTAs who graduated from an ACOTE approved occupational therapy assistant program but do not possess the NBCOT certification and/or licensure requirements, pending licensure and/or NBCOT certification, on a full-time temporary appointment under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(a)(1)(B) and not to exceed two years in accordance with the timeframe in 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2),  

Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Drivers License. OTA's  must possess and maintain a current, valid, and unrestricted state drivers license for this position. 

Do you have a current, unrestricted state drivers license?
 Yes
 No


5a.
Please provide your Driver's license Information. DO NOT upload copy. 
Name on License:
Issuing state:
Complete license number:
Expiration date: 


Grade Requirements:   Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Occupational Therapy Assistant, GS-06
Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level. .

GS-5 Assignment: Employees at this grade level serve in an OTA entry level developmental position under direct clinical direction and partnership of an OT. The treating OT is available on a regularly scheduled basis to review the practice of the OTA and support the OTA in the performance of his/her services. OTAs perform preliminary chart review including medical history and looking for contraindications for treatment. They provide functional and purposeful intervention to enhance safety, wellness, performance in activities of daily living (ADL) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), education, work, play, leisure and social participation. OTAs recommend treatment changes based on changes in physical, mental, and/or medical status of the patient. They follow guidelines from the AOTA, The Joint Commission (TJC) and current VHA policy and protocols as instructed by supervisor.

Do you meet the experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level? 
 Yes
 No


7.
Occupational Therapy Assistant, GS-06 
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of evidence-based occupational therapy practice.
(b) Knowledge of basic group techniques and interpersonal communication
(c) Skill in written communication to document data, progress/change in status, discharge status, and patient or caregiver education.
(d) Skill in oral communication to document data, progress/change in status, discharge status, and patient or caregiver education.
(e) Ability to assist in the development of treatment goals/objectives.
(f) Ability to implement a patient care plan incorporating activity analysis theory.

Does your resume reflect the experience required to meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above?
 Yes
 No


8.
Occupational Therapy Assistant, GS-07
Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

Do you meet the experience equivalent for the GS-6 grade level? 
 Yes
 No


9.
Occupational Therapy Assistant, GS-07
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. [In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Skill in promoting occupational therapy services effectively, providing training and interventions within the assigned areas
(b) Ability to perform in depth chart review to identify treatment goals and implement treatment plans.
(c) Ability to use problem-solving skills when providing therapeutic interventions for patients.
(d) Ability to provide multi-step instructions to patients, caregivers and other health care professionals adapting instructions to meet the learning needs of the individual.

Does your resume reflect the experience required to meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities described above?
 Yes
 No


10.
Occupational Therapy Assistant, GS-08 
Experience. One year of creditable experience comparable to the next lower grade level.

Do you meet the experience for the GS-07 grade level? 
 Yes
 No


11.
Occupational Therapy Assistant, GS-08
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to implement delegated assessments.
(b) Ability to provide reports of observations and patient performance.
(c) Ability to use complex therapeutic techniques and interventions, utilizing problem-solving skills to maximize patient's functional status.
(d) Ability to modify therapeutic interventions for simple and complex cases with a wide range of diagnoses and disabilities.
(e) Ability to recommend complex adaptive and assistive devices and durable medical equipment.
(f) Ability to consult with health care practitioners about the patient's treatment plan and the occupational therapy scope of practice and services.

Does your resume reflect the experience required to meet the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities? 
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

MILITARY DOCUMENTATION REMINDER-  If you are a veteran claiming Veterans Preference you must submit the most recent Member 2 or Member 4 copy of your DD-214.  If you are claiming 10 point CP or CPS or XP, you must also submit a copy of your SF-15 and a copy of your Service Connected Disability letter that shows your total percentage rating.  Your veteran status cannot be verified without these documents and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.

LICENSE AND TRANSCRIPTS - Please provide a copy of your official transcripts and licensure to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.

CERTIFICATION- Please provide a copy of your Certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙