Position Title
Supervisory Chemist (Forensic)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
26-OST-IMP-12819651-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 12, 2025 to Wednesday, November 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently work at the DOJ? If so, you may be eligible to apply to this vacancy announcement.
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent DOJ employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility, access eOPF and open your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50):  Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."  If you are still unsure of your eligibility, contact the individual listed in the vacancy announcement for assistance.  
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package before the announcement closes.  You can obtain a copy from eOPF.  
Select "Yes" to this eligibility question. 
Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as an ATF Employee?  If you work at DOJ, select "Yes," submit the required documentation, and we will make the determination for you.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Beltsville, MD


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
From the statements below, select the choice that best describes your education and/or experience to meet the basic qualifications for this position. (Must submit transcripts to verify eligibility)
 Degree: physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics.
 Combination of education and experience -- course work equivalent to a major as shown in A above, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the required education and/or experience to qualify for this position as shown in A or B.


2.
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 1. I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements: Mentoring forensic examiners or leading project teams; AND conducting laboratory casework in the forensic examination of explosives and/or fire debris and/or trace evidence; AND participating in routine proficiency testing.
 2. I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described under the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.


3.
ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?

 Yes
 No


4.
Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙