Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12898223-26-JML Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 26, 2026 to Mar 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Language Proficiency
1.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Pedorthist) position with the VISN 8 VA Sunshine Network! This position is located in West Palm Beach Florida. We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.This position is at the full performance level, which means you will need to have experience at the next lower grade level, and such experience needs to be demonstrated on your resume.


Grandfathering Provision:  Employees in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement, performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and credentialing/certification, where applicable. 

Note: You may meet basic requirements under this provision. If you aren't sure if you are covered under this provision, please refer to the Qualification section of this announcement. If you are still unsure, reach out to the point of contact listed in the announcement.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the basic requirements. This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements. Reminder: Submit documentation to support your answers.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Credential / Certification - Documentation Required with application. 

Candidates must be board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).

OR

(2) Credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).


Do you meet one of these certification requirements or meet the grandfathering provision as described?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements, individuals appointed to this occupation must meet the qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment as well as the basic requirements. Answer each question as it relates to your experience. Rember all experience must be documented to your resume to receive credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Health Technician (Pedorthist) - GS-7 (Full performance level)

Experience: To be appointed as a GS 7 Health Technician (Pedorthist) you must have one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6) 

GS-6 equivalent experience includes: Knowledge of of simple and complex device types. Independently takes scans and measurements; prepares and modifies casts and repairs and fabricateds complex devices with input from the individual provding clinical oversight. Minimal clinical oversight and direction of a credentialed pedorthist, orthotist, or CPO, they provide complex devices and deliver patient/caregiver education for them. They assess simple and complex devices for quality including structural soundness, compliance with the prescription, fit, and patient comfort. Health Technician (Pedorthist) assists with advanced device types to include quality assurance assessment. Health Technician (Pedorthist) assists with development of a follow up treatment plan for atypical conditions. In addition to the clinical duties outlined previously, Health Technician (Pedorthist) assists with administrative activities including, but not limited to, assigning Healthcare Procedure Coding System (HCPCS) coding of pedorthic devices to facilitate procurement, preparing documentation for Veterans being sent to vendors, participating in interdisciplinary teams, processing consults and generating administrative orders for procurement of pedorthic devices.

Do you possess one year of GS-6 level equivalent experience?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙