Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12843002-AR-26-005 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Saturday, September 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Grand Island, NE
 B. Lincoln, NE


Conditions of Employment
1.
Are you an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer, or Officer in the grades of E5 - E9, WO1 - CW5 or O1 - O4?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O1 - O4.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member, Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of O1 - O4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the applicant to understand the stages required to automate a work process. Experience may have been gained in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe a situation where you encountered a significant technical problem in a network environment. What steps did you take to identify the issue, and how did you resolve it? Please include details about any guidelines or policies you followed during this process.


4.
Explain your experience with managing IT projects. How do you prioritize tasks and ensure that project objectives are met within deadlines? Provide an example of a project you managed, including the challenges faced and the outcomes achieved.


5.
In your previous roles, have you had the opportunity to lead a team or mentor junior employees? Describe your approach to distributing workload and providing on-the-job training. How do you handle performance evaluations and training recommendations for your team members?


6.
Describe a time when you had to persuade stakeholders to adopt a new technical method or procedure that they were initially resistant to. What strategies did you employ to address their concerns and influence their decision? Additionally, how did you ensure that the implementation of this method was successful despite any organizational conflicts or competing objectives?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙