Position Title
Wildlife Refuge Manager
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R1-26-13041288-SL-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION. The following questions address if you are eligible to apply to this job opportunity announcement through Merit Promotion procedures. You will only be considered under the options you have selected. You may qualify for more than one eligibility, so please choose carefully. If you respond that you do not meet any of the following criteria, you will not be considered for this position under this announcement. Please refer to the announcement for additional information. You must submit a complete application by the close of the announcement to be considered.


1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below: 

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive, Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service AND has held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive, current, permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


2.
Are you including a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Basic Education Requirement

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or other degree in zoology, wildlife management or an appropriate field of biology that included at least 9 semester hours in zoology; 6 semester hours in such wildlife courses as mammalogy, ornithology, animal ecology, or wildlife management, 3 semester hours in botany and 3 semester hours in conservation biology. Note: If courses in wildlife, zoology, botany or conservation biology are not clearly identified on transcript and knowledge of such subjects was obtained in other coursework, include a description of such courses to include syllabus as provided in official college catalog. OR
 Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in one of the fields described in A above that included at least 9 semester hours in zoology; 6 semester hours in such wildlife courses as mammalogy, ornithology, animal ecology, or wildlife management; and 3 semester hours in botany, and 3 semester hours in conservation biology, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the basic education requirement mentioned above.


2.
Minimum Qualification GS-0485-12

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level or higher that demonstrates the ability to perform successfully the duties of this position and that is typically in or related to the work of this position to be filled. Examples of specialized experience may include: 1) managing or coordinating wildlife refuge or natural resource management programs, such as planning and implementing wildlife and habitat management activities; 2) evaluating or coordinating biological, habitat restoration, or conservation projects; 3) applying natural resource laws, regulations, and policies; 4) developing or implementing annual work plans, budgets, or project priorities; and 5) coordinating with Federal, State, Tribal, local or other partners on natural resource management activities.
 I have two years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree, in a related field to the position.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and experience.
 I do not meet the specialized experience described above.


Integrity Certification


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in m not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙