Position Title
Supervisory Management and Program Analyst (Branch Manager)
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
26-FS-12937133-MPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 28, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


5.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


6.
When The Bureau of Fiscal Service completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include all of the following:
- Experience analyzing and developing solutions to enhance organizational, process, and operational efficiencies in an automated environment; AND
- Developing and implementing strategies, setting priorities, providing recommendations to management; AND
- Coordinating, leading, and prioritizing work for subordinate employees.




1.
For the GS-14, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.


2.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience/education so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
 I have independently applied new or innovative analytical methods or approaches to problems.
 I have independently applied organizational, management, and analytical methods to problems and to the development and evaluation of options for solutions.
 I have participated with others in projects involving the application of organizational, management and analytical methods to problems and the development and evaluation of options for solutions.
 I have little or no experience analyzing complex problems.


4.
From the list below select the responses that describe which duties you have performed.
 A. Oversight of access controls of IT systems.
 B. Planning for system continuity of operations.
 C. Problem management/resolution of production systems.
 D. Audit evaluation of IT systems.
 E. Security analysis of IT systems.
 F. Create security plans or process mapping of IT systems.
 G. None of the above.


5.
From the list below select the responses that describe your experience managing projects.
 A. Defined the project scope.
 B. Planned the project and established milestones.
 C. Developed or managed change/problem tracking system.
 D. Managed project requirements and user expectations.
 E. Facilitated discussions and decisions to work toward solutions.
 F. Clarified roles and optimized the contribution of the people involved in the project.
 G. Controlled deliverables, ensuring that they met quality benchmarks and were on schedule.
 H. Conducted formal project closeout activities.
 I. None of the above.


6.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience in directing and coordinating the work of others effectively to achieve timely and quality results.
 I have led, supervised and managed professional and administrative staff in the design and delivery of systems and projects.
 I have experience as a leader in a complex system support environment including providing direction and guidance to perform daily functional responsibilities.
 I have experience directing and coordinating work of others.
 I have not performed the above tasks.


7.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience in supervision and leadership.
 In my past work assignments, I have had direct supervisor authority.
 In my past work assignments, I have been a team leader, articulating goals and outcomes and motivating others to achieve them.
 In my past work assignments, I have worked to promote cooperation and coordinated work with personnel outside my office.
 In my past work assignments, I have worked to promote cooperation and coordinated work with personnel inside my office.
 None of the above.


8.
Please choose the statements that describe the duties you have performed.
 A. Represented an organization in meetings and made presentations to the Department of Treasury.
 B. Represented an organization in meetings and made presentations to a Federal Reserve Bank.
 C. Represented an organization in meetings and made presentations to other offices.
 D. Managed relationships as the key focal point of contact with other government agencies.
 E. None of the above.


9.
From the list below select the responses that describe which of the following duties you have performed.
 A. Worked with team members who were from different organizations, disciplines, or conflicting views or approaches.
 B. Worked with team members and persuaded others to accept the recommended point of view.
 C. Presented finding and recommendations to senior management or others outside the Division or Branch to which the applicant is assigned.
 D. Presented/provided recommendation to the immediate supervisor. (1)
 E. None of the above.


10.
From the list below select the response that describes your highest level of experience maintaining, promoting, and forging effective relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have developed programs to promote establishing effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have led efforts to promote establishing effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have established effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience in communicating information orally.
 I have given presentations to senior management officials for purposes of obtaining decisions.
 I have provided briefings/updates to supervisors, coworkers, or others on a regular basis.
 I have given presentations to individuals within my organization.
 I have provided one-on-one instructions to others on procedures.
 None of the above.


12.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience interacting with a variety of people to achieve effective solutions.
 I have served as spokesperson for an organization (such as a branch or division).
 I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 I have presented, defended, and negotiated specific goals, needs, or problems with senior management.
 I have independently planned and conducted meetings.
 I have served on focus groups, committees, or project teams with regard to system issues.
 None of the above.


13.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience communicating in writing.
 I have independently generated effective, detailed, well-written documents that required no editing, and are of a quality suitable for review by senior executives.
 I have consistently generated effective, detailed, well written documents that require little editing prior to distribution.
 I have developed and compiled written documents for a wide variety of audiences that required moderate editing prior to distribution.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙