Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12941660-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


11.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


12.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


COEs
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


5.
According to USACE guidance issued August 8, 2025, current Program Managers or Project Managers with a minimum of 2 years of PM related experience must be certified Career Development Plan (CDP) level 1 by August 8, 2026. All Program and Project Managers with less than 2 years of PM experience must be certified CDP level 1 within 6 months after achieving 2 years of PM related experience. Are you willing to meet this certification requirement within the specified timeframe?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Manager position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Manager at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service that includes; leading design and/or construction projects to include project scope, budget, and scheduling.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. - There are no right or wrong answers. - Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. - This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.



1.
You have just been assigned as the Program Manager for a new, high-priority project. During the initial kickoff meeting, you realize the project charter provided by the primary stakeholder is vague, and your team members have different interpretations of the project's key objectives. This ambiguity is likely to cause significant scope creep and delays. What is the most appropriate first step?

 Authorize the team to begin initial design work based on the existing charter's general direction, planning to refine the project objectives as the work progresses and more information becomes available.
 Schedule and facilitate a formal planning session with the project team and key stakeholders to collaboratively define, document, and agree upon specific, measurable objectives for the Project Management Plan (PMP).
 Meet individually with the primary stakeholder to get their verbal clarification on the objectives, then relay this information to your project team in the next weekly status meeting to guide their work.
 Immediately assign all project tasks based on your own interpretation of the charter's intent to avoid delays and ensure the team is fully utilized from the first day of the project schedule.
 Instruct your lead engineers to draft a comprehensive set of project objectives based on their interpretation of the charter, then circulate this draft to all stakeholders for review and written comment before finalizing.


2.
You are leading a multi-disciplinary Project Delivery Team (PDT) on a complex construction project. A junior engineer on the team, who is not a direct report, consistently fails to follow established communication protocols, instead contacting the customer directly with technical opinions that sometimes conflict with the team's official position. This is causing confusion for the customer. How should you handle this situation?

 Meet with the engineer and their direct supervisor to review the established communication plan, explain the negative impact of their actions, and clarify their role and responsibilities within the team.
 Send an email directly to the junior engineer outlining the communication protocol from the PMP and instruct them to cease all direct, unauthorized contact with the customer immediately.
 Discuss the issue with the engineer's direct supervisor, explain the need for adherence to the communication plan, and ask the supervisor to address the behavior with their employee directly.
 Contact the customer to apologize for the confusion and instruct them to disregard any future communications that do not come directly from you as the official Program Manager.
 Address the entire PDT at the next team meeting, reminding everyone of the official communication protocols and the importance of speaking with one voice to the customer without singling anyone out.


3.
You are in the middle of a multi-year program when a new federal environmental regulation is passed. Initial analysis suggests it could significantly impact your program's material and disposal requirements, potentially increasing costs by 20% and delaying the schedule. The customer is highly budget-sensitive. What is your most appropriate course of action?

 Develop a rough cost and schedule estimate based on your initial analysis and immediately brief the customer on the potential impacts to give them as much advance warning as possible about the changes.
 Continue with the current project plan while tasking a junior team member to monitor the implementation of the new regulation, assuming that waivers or exemptions for existing projects will be available.
 Direct the technical team to conduct a detailed analysis of the new regulation's impact on the program's cost, schedule, and scope, and then present these findings with proposed mitigation options to the customer.
 Task the contracting officer to research and identify alternative suppliers or materials that may be compliant with the new regulation and could potentially lower the forecasted cost increase.
 Immediately halt all project work that could be affected by the new regulation until your agency's legal department provides a definitive and official interpretation of the new requirements.


4.
Your program is approaching a critical milestone, but progress has been slowed by unforeseen technical challenges. Higher headquarters has requested a formal briefing on the program's status and your strategy for getting back on track. The audience will include senior leaders who are not familiar with the project's technical details. How do you prepare for this briefing?

 Focus the briefing on the program's initial successes and long-term objectives, briefly mentioning the current challenges but assuring leadership that your team has them under control without going into detail.
 Assemble a collection of all recent status reports, progress charts, and team meeting minutes into a comprehensive information packet for the leadership to review so they have all the available data.
 Develop a concise, high-level briefing that clearly defines the program goals, summarizes the current status and challenges, and presents a clear, actionable strategy with recovery milestones and associated risks.
 Prepare a detailed technical presentation that thoroughly explains the root cause of the challenges, including all relevant data and analysis, to demonstrate your team's complete command of the situation.
 Request a meeting with the senior leaders' executive assistants to explain the situation to them and ask for their advice on how to best present the information to their bosses in the briefing.


5.
Your program, which supports a critical national security mission, is facing a potential 15% budget cut in the next fiscal year. This reduction will make it impossible to meet all of the original long-term objectives. You must present a revised strategy to your leadership. Which approach is most appropriate?

 Analyze the program objectives against mission priorities, develop several strategic options that involve de-scoping or phasing lower-priority objectives, and present a recommendation with a clear impact analysis for each option.
 Implement an immediate, across-the-board 15% cut to all project activities, directing all team leads to reduce their spending proportionally to meet the new budget target without a strategic review.
 Create a new plan that extends the program's timeline by two years, allowing the original scope to be accomplished by spreading the costs over a longer period to fit within the new annual budget.
 Prepare a briefing that strongly advocates for restoring the budget by detailing the negative consequences of the cut on the national security mission, without offering any alternative strategies.
 Develop a revised strategy that proposes using a less experienced, lower-cost contracting team to execute the work, allowing you to maintain the original scope despite the reduced budget.


6.
A new agency-wide project management policy has been implemented. One of the new requirements is impractical for your program's unique operational context and, if followed strictly, would jeopardize a critical project milestone. Other program managers are facing similar issues. What is the most appropriate action?

 Consult with other program managers who are affected by the policy to build a consensus, and then collectively draft a memo to leadership outlining the shared concerns and recommending a revision to the policy.
 Use your authority as Program Manager to informally approve a deviation from the specific policy requirement for your program, believing that meeting the milestone justifies the minor non-compliance.
 Document the specific conflict and the potential impact on your program, then formally request a policy waiver or tailored interpretation from the policy-making office, providing a proposed alternative for compliance.
 Instruct your team to ignore the impractical requirement, since it is a new policy and you assume that enforcement and oversight from the agency will be weak in the initial implementation phase.
 Implement the new policy as written to ensure compliance but immediately document all the negative impacts and delays it causes, in order to build a case for a future policy change or exception.


7.
As a Section Chief, you are responsible for ensuring your team of project managers implements a new, complex set of financial reporting guidelines issued by headquarters. The team is already overworked with project deadlines. How do you best ensure effective implementation?

 Request a blanket extension from headquarters for your entire section, stating that the team's current workload makes it impossible to implement the new policy guidance at this time.
 Forward the email from headquarters with the new guidelines to your team and instruct them to implement the changes on their projects, trusting them as professionals to adapt as required by their deadlines.
 Announce that you will personally review and approve every financial report for the next three months to ensure full compliance with the new guidelines before they are submitted by your project managers.
 Organize a mandatory training session for your team, explain the rationale behind the new guidelines, provide standardized templates, and schedule follow-up reviews to ensure consistent and accurate adoption.
 Appoint one of your senior project managers to become the subject matter expert on the new guidelines and have them be the point of contact for any questions from the rest of the team as they arise.


8.
A key project under your supervision is two weeks behind schedule but still within budget. The contractor has proposed a recovery plan that involves using a less experienced crew for a non-critical portion of the work to make up time. The customer is highly focused on the completion date. What is your best course of action?

 Approve the contractor's recovery plan as proposed, but require them to provide daily progress reports specifically for the work done by the less experienced crew to monitor their performance closely.
 Evaluate the contractor's proposal, focusing on the potential quality and safety risks of using a less experienced crew, and approve it only after adding specific quality control checkpoints and hold points.
 Immediately accept the contractor's proposal without further analysis to show the customer you are doing everything possible to meet their desired completion date.
 Reject the contractor's proposal outright due to the quality risk and instruct them to absorb the two-week delay, then explain the revised completion date to the customer.
 Ask the contractor to develop an alternative recovery plan that does not involve changing personnel, such as authorizing overtime work, even though this will likely increase the project's final cost.


9.
You are overseeing a portfolio of projects. You notice that one of your most reliable project managers has submitted two consecutive status reports that seem overly optimistic and lack detail, which is out of character. The project is complex, but the reports show everything as "green." What is the most appropriate action?

 Ask another senior project manager in your section to informally check in with the project manager to see if they can get a better sense of the project's true status and any potential issues.
 Conduct an informal review of the project's key documents, such as the schedule and budget, to look for discrepancies before deciding whether you need to speak with the project manager.
 Make a note to pay closer attention to that project's formal monthly review, but take no other action now, trusting the project manager's track record and their official status reports.
 Schedule a private meeting with the project manager to discuss your observations, ask open-ended questions about the project's challenges, and offer your support in reviewing the project's risk register.
 Address the issue at the next all-hands team meeting by reminding all project managers of the importance of detailed and transparent reporting, without mentioning the specific individual or project.


10.
You need to assemble a Project Delivery Team (PDT) for a new, high-profile project that requires a rare and specialized engineering skill. The only available in-house engineer with this skill is already 100% allocated to another critical project. How do you proceed?

 Inform your leadership that the project cannot be executed as planned due to the lack of available specialized personnel and request that the project be delayed until the expert engineer is available.
 Proceed with assembling the rest of the team and submit a request to hire a contractor with the required skill, while documenting the potential schedule delay this procurement action may cause.
 Place the specialized engineer on your project team in the system without consulting the other manager, assuming that the priority of your new project will override their existing allocation.
 Negotiate with the other project's manager and your shared supervisor to see if the specialized engineer can be partially allocated to your team or can serve as a consultant and reviewer for your project.
 Assign a senior engineer who has related, but not direct, experience to the project and build extra time into the schedule for them to get up to speed on the specialized skill required for the work.


11.
During a monthly review, you notice one of your projects has a significant underrun, having spent only 50% of its budgeted funds for the fiscal year with only three months remaining. The Project Management Plan (PMP) called for 80% to be spent by this point. This underrun could result in your program losing the funds. What is your most appropriate action?

 Immediately report the surplus funds to the district's resource management office so they can be reallocated to other programs that are currently over-budget or have unfunded requirements.
 Meet with the project manager to identify the root cause of the underrun, validate the project's true financial needs for the year, and develop a realistic, updated spend plan to present to the resource board.
 Take no immediate action, as an underrun is preferable to an overrun and the funds will likely be needed to cover unforeseen costs later in the project's life cycle next year.
 Instruct the project manager to accelerate procurement of materials and services planned for next year in order to spend the remaining funds by the end of the current fiscal year and avoid losing them.
 Direct the project manager to revise their progress reports to show a higher rate of expenditure, assuming that invoices and payments are simply delayed and will catch up by the end of the fiscal year.


12.
As Section Chief, you are conducting a quarterly program review. You find that three of the eight projects in your section are trending behind schedule due to what appears to be a bottleneck in the contracting support office. How do you address this systemic issue?

 Draft a formal letter of complaint to your supervisor about the contracting office's poor performance and its impact on your section's ability to meet its objectives, and request their intervention.
 Raise the issue at the next District Project Review Board (PRB), present the data on the schedule delays, and ask for leadership's intervention to resolve the bottleneck with the contracting office.
 Analyze the data from the three delayed projects to identify a specific pattern or root cause, then schedule a meeting with the head of the contracting office to discuss the issue and collaboratively find a solution.
 Re-plan the schedules for the three affected projects to account for the ongoing contracting delays, and then communicate the new, later completion dates to the respective customers.
 Instruct the three affected project managers to individually escalate their schedule issues within the contracting office to see if they can get their specific procurement actions prioritized and resolved.


13.
Two weeks before the end of the fiscal year, a project manager informs you that a major vendor has defaulted, freeing up $250,000 in project funds that are about to expire. The funds must be used on the same project. What is the most appropriate action?

 Purchase bulk materials or equipment that are not immediately needed but will eventually be used by the project, in order to expend the funds before the end-of-year deadline.
 Quickly work with the project team to identify and execute a valid, pre-scoped, but unfunded requirement for the same project that can be contracted and obligated before the funds expire.
 Ask the finance office to move the funds to a different project in your portfolio that has a current cost overrun, even though this may not be fully compliant with funding regulations.
 Initiate the process to return the funds to the program's funding source with a full explanation, preserving your credibility even though the funds will be lost for the current fiscal year.
 Immediately issue a purchase order to a trusted, reliable vendor for "consulting services" equal to the amount, with the intention of defining the scope of work after the new fiscal year begins.


14.
You are in a meeting with a major customer who becomes angry about a recent project delay. They begin to loudly criticize your team's competence and the organization's performance in front of several of your junior team members. What is the most professional response?

 Respond to the customer's anger with an equally firm tone, stating that their behavior is unprofessional and that you will not continue the discussion until they can be more respectful.
 Listen to the customer's full complaint without interruption, apologize for the delay and their frustration, and promise to immediately investigate the situation and report back to them.
 Acknowledge the customer's frustration, calmly suggest discussing the specific issues in a smaller, separate meeting, and then transition the current meeting back to its planned agenda if possible.
 Defend your team's performance by providing a point-by-point rebuttal of the customer's criticisms, using facts and data from project reports to correct their inaccurate statements.
 End the meeting immediately to de-escalate the situation and protect your team members from the unprofessional behavior, planning to reschedule when the customer is calmer.


15.
During a presentation to senior leadership, you are asked a complex technical question about your program for which you do not know the precise answer. The subject matter expert for that area is not in the meeting. How should you respond?

 Attempt to answer the question to the best of your ability by logically deducing what the answer might be, based on your overall knowledge of the project and its current status.
 State that you do not have the specific information available but will get a definitive answer from the technical expert and provide it to them by the end of the day, then make a note to follow up.
 Tell the leader that the question is too detailed for a strategic-level briefing and that such technical questions should be directed to the engineering team outside of this forum.
 Provide a general, high-level answer based on your best understanding of the topic, while also stating that you will need to confirm the technical details with your team and follow up.
 Ask if you can pause the presentation to call the subject matter expert on their phone to get the answer, in order to provide the information to leadership in real-time during the meeting.


16.
Your organization has decided to use a novel but cost-effective construction method for a new project. A local community group has publicly raised concerns about the safety and long-term viability of this method. You have been tasked with providing a formal justification. What is the best approach?

 Ask the organization's public affairs office to handle all communication on the issue, providing them with only the basic technical specifications of the new construction method.
 Draft a press release that highlights the significant cost savings and accelerated schedule the new method provides, while assuring the public that all standard safety protocols are being followed.
 Write a formal letter to the community group stating that the construction method is an internal technical decision and that the organization is not required to justify its engineering choices.
 Prepare a formal information paper with supporting data from industry studies, engineering analyses, and pilot projects to demonstrate the method's safety and effectiveness, and offer to brief the community group.
 Schedule a meeting with the community group leaders to listen to their specific concerns and provide verbal assurances that the organization is confident in the safety of the chosen method.


17.
You are scheduled to give a project status presentation to a high-ranking official from a partner agency. The day before the briefing, your team discovers a significant software integration issue that will likely cause a 30-day schedule slip. This new information is not yet in your prepared presentation. What should you do?

 Update your presentation to include a summary of the new issue, its potential impact, and the immediate steps your team is taking to analyze and mitigate it, and be prepared to discuss it.
 Attempt to cancel or postpone the presentation, telling the official's staff that you need more time to incorporate the latest project data to ensure the briefing is completely accurate.
 Give the presentation as prepared, but verbally mention at the end that a new issue has just been discovered and that you will provide a detailed report on it within the next few days.
 Delegate the presentation to your deputy so that you can focus all of your attention on working with the technical team to solve the newly discovered software integration issue.
 Give the presentation as prepared and do not mention the new issue, deciding it is better to wait until you have a complete mitigation plan before briefing it to the partner agency.


18.
As a supervisor, you notice that one of your project teams is consistently missing minor deadlines. The team lead is a new supervisor and seems overwhelmed. The team's overall quality of work remains high, but the missed deadlines are starting to delay other dependent teams. What is your most appropriate action?

 Meet with the entire team, with the team lead present, to review the current workload and deadlines, and lead a discussion on how the team can improve its timeliness and internal processes.
 Formally counsel the new team lead in writing for their failure to meet deadlines, and place them on a Performance Improvement Plan to ensure the issue is officially documented and corrected.
 Meet with the new team lead to mentor them on workload management and prioritization techniques, review their current tracking methods, and offer to help them facilitate a planning session with their team.
 Reassign several of the team's upcoming tasks to another, more experienced team in your section to alleviate the immediate pressure and ensure the overall program schedule is maintained.
 Institute a requirement for the team lead to provide you with a daily report of the team's progress against deadlines until you see that their performance has improved and is back on track.


19.
You are the Section Chief supervising several project management teams. You have a general sense that overall efficiency has declined over the past year, but you lack specific data. You want to identify areas for improvement without damaging morale. What is the best first step?

 Conduct a series of anonymous surveys and "lessons learned" sessions with the teams to gather qualitative feedback on processes, bottlenecks, and potential areas for improvement directly from the staff.
 Perform a detailed, hands-on audit of one specific project that you suspect is underperforming, in order to use it as a case study for identifying broader issues affecting the entire section.
 Announce a new "efficiency initiative" at your next section meeting and form a working group composed of volunteers from the teams to brainstorm and recommend process improvements.
 Direct your team leads to increase their production by 10% and report back on the methods they used to achieve this, assuming that setting an aggressive goal will drive them to find efficiencies.
 Implement a few key performance metrics, such as schedule performance index (SPI) and cost performance index (CPI), and analyze the data over a quarter to identify specific trends and problem areas for discussion.


20.
Your section is about to take on a new program that will require extensive use of a new, specialized scheduling software that none of your current staff members are trained on. The project is on a tight timeline. What is the most effective way to prepare your team?

 Purchase the software and an online training subscription for all team members, and then direct them to complete the self-paced training modules as their individual workloads permit.
 Arrange for formal, hands-on training for the entire team, and supplement it by bringing in a temporary contractor who is an expert in the software to assist with initial setup and provide on-the-job guidance.
 Hire a new employee who already has the required software skills and assign them the primary responsibility for all scheduling tasks for the new program, leaving the rest of the team untrained.
 Select two of your most tech-savvy employees, send them to an intensive training course to become subject matter experts, and then have them train the rest of the team members internally.
 Delay the start of the new program and submit a request to the training department for a standard course, accepting the schedule slip as a necessary cost of getting the team properly prepared.


21.
Two highly respected senior engineers on one of your project teams have a major disagreement over a critical design decision. The conflict has become personal, and their arguments in team meetings are halting progress. Both engineers have valid technical points. How do you manage this conflict?

 Listen to both engineers' arguments separately, then make the final design decision yourself based on your own judgment and the project's best interests, and communicate your decision to the team.
 Move one of the engineers to a different project team to separate them, and then proceed with the design choice advocated by the engineer who remains on the original project team.
 Ask the two engineers to go and work out their disagreement on their own, telling them that you expect a single, unified recommendation from them by the end of the week and that they are to remain professional.
 Mediate a meeting with both engineers, allow each to present their technical case without interruption, and guide them toward a compromise solution or a trade-off analysis to make a final, data-driven decision.
 Put the decision to a vote at the next team meeting, allowing the majority of the project team to decide which of the two competing design approaches the team should adopt going forward.


22.
Your team is working on a long and grueling project with few major milestones in the near future. You notice that morale and motivation seem to be dropping, and team members are becoming disengaged. What is the most effective way to boost motivation and cooperation?

 Meet individually with the team members who appear most disengaged to ask them about their concerns and see if there are any specific issues you can address to improve their morale.
 Organize a team-building off-site event or social gathering to give team members a break from the routine and a chance to connect on a more personal level to improve team cohesion.
 Announce that you will be tracking individual performance more closely and that those who demonstrate high levels of productivity will be rewarded when the project is finally complete.
 Remind the team of the project's critical importance to the organization's mission and express your confidence in their ability to see it through to a successful completion.
 Break the long-term project into a series of smaller, short-term "sprints" or goals, and then publicly recognize the team's accomplishments as each of these smaller goals is achieved.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙