Position Title
Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12915838 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Food Service Worker (Short Order Cook) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Indicate your years of food service experience you have
 Two plus years of documented short order cook experience
 One to two years of documented short order cook experience
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience


2.
What is your experience working as a food service worker
 A. Use of griddle
 B. Use of fryer
 C. Use of broiler
 D. Use of pizza oven
 E. Preparing sandwiches
 F. Chopping/dicing vegetables for salad bar
 G. None of the above


3.
Years of experience working a cash register and or credit card transactions

 Two plus years of documented experience
 One to two years of documented experience
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙