Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1549-YOSE-26-12857766-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 08, 2026 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. El Portal, CA
 B. Yosemite National Park, CA


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Maintenance Mechanic WG-4749-10 position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your response. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answer you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified, or you may be placed in a lower quality category.


ABILITY TO DO THE WORK OF A MAINTENANCE MECHANIC, WG-4749-10 WITHOUT MORE THAN NORMAL SUPERVISION


1.
From the descriptions below select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Maintenance Mechanic, WG-4749-10 position. Experience must be demonstrated in at least two of the following trades: Masonry, Electrical, Plumbing, Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic, Utilities Systems Repair-Operator and Engineering Equipment Operator.
 I have experience that demonstrates the ability to perform most of the work as a Maintenance Mechanic at the journeyman level. At this level, I am able to provide technical recommendations for methods, tools, and materials used in these trades as well as plan, layout all work to be completed and ensure proper selection of materials and manpower for the completion of projects. I have performed at this level in two of the following trades: Electrical, Plumbing, Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic.
 I have experience that demonstrates the ability to perform most of the work as a Maintenance Mechanic at the journeyman level. At this level, I am able to plan and layout all work to be completed and ensure proper selection of tools. I have performed at this level in two of the following trades: Electrical, Plumbing, and Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic.
 I have experience that demonstrates the ability to perform most of the work as a Maintenance Mechanic at the journeyman level. At this level, I have performed the work with a high level of independence. I have performed at this level in two of the following trades: Electrical, Plumbing, and Air Conditioning Equipment Mechanic.
 I do not meet the ability described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙