Position Title
Power Plant Senior Controller
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-13070542-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Oct 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Senior Controller, WB-5407-00 position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Senior Controller, WB-5407-00 position duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex of the following duties: 1) operating a hydroelectric power plant equipment; AND 2) issuing safe clearances for hydroelectric power plant equipment; AND 3) operating flood control facilities to reduce flood risk; AND 4) communicating with dispatches in emergency and non-emergency situations to plan and control power distribution (or equivalent experience).I am skilled in performing power plant operations by utilizing Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) computer system to alter generation and voltage levels on multiple local and remote units. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of the following duties 1) operating a hydroelectric power plant equipment; AND 2) issuing safe clearances for hydroelectric power plant equipment; AND 3) operating flood control facilities to reduce flood risk; AND 4) communicating with dispatches in emergency and non-emergency situations to plan and control power distribution (or equivalent experience).I am skilled in using SCADA computer system to operate multiple local and remote units at various geographical hydroelectric power plants. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties of operating a hydroelectric power plant under normal and abnormal conditions issuing safe clearance for hydroelectric power plant equipment. I can operate flood control facilities to reduce flood risk. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes task in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks of operating a hydroelectric power plant under normal conditions or I have received training on operating flood control facilities to reduce flood risks and communicating with dispatchers in emergency and non-emergency situations.
 I do not possess the ability described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙