Position Title
SAPR Deputy Program Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR 26-129 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 25, 2026 to May 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. The following questions are designed to assess your background (education and/or experience) as it relates to the requirements for the Regional Deputy Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0101 Social Science Series?
 I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have at least four (4) years of appropriate experience demonstrated to represent acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 I have no experience with the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least five (5) years of specialized experience in victim assistance or advocacy within either military or civilian sector?
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing the full range of supervisory duties, such as managing workflows, conducting performance reviews, taking corrective actions for disciplinary issues?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have conducting sexual assault prevention and response trainings and briefings?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Which describes your experience interpreting and applying sexual assault prevention and response policies (please select all that apply)?
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Navy (DON).
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside of the DON.
 I have experience with the above within the federal government, but outside of the DoD.
 I have experience with the above within state or local government, or private industry.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙