Position Title
Freight Rate Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13055208-NE-DLG-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service?

Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-09 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-09 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I have one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the federal sector. Specialize Experience: Determines the proper classification(s) and determines the legally applicable and most economical rates and routes for shipment of freight by any or all modes of transportation in accordance with published tariffs and tariff routings, etc. Assures, determines, and comply with requirements, specifications and regulations such as the Uniform Freight Classifications (UFC); National Motor Freight Classifications (NMFC); and all DoD and DoD service component regulations.; Determine and evaluate economical rates and routes for shipment using all major modes and combinations of modes, for movement in the United States and worldwide from origin to final destination; Corresponding and relating to freight classifying, rating and shipping and coordinating reports with other traffic personnel; Work guidelines  that include DOD, USCG, freight classification guides, and hazardous materials regulations; federal state and international and foreign guidelines; locally developed standard operation instructions; and various other freight manuals, rating and routing guides.
 My experience does not match the choice above


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙