Position Title
Social Worker (Clinical)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-13056015-DHA R Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Social Worker (Clinical) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Social Worker (Clinical) at the GS-09/11/12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a master's degree (or higher degree) in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Social Worker (Clinical) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service One year of specialized experience which includes assisting with providing individual or group clinical counseling; assist with developing treatment plans and assist in creating reports and maintaining casefiles.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Social Work. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Social Worker (Clinical) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes assisting with conducting bio-psychosocial evaluations of behavioral health patients; assisting with providing individual or group clinical counseling; and implementing behavioral health treatment recommendations.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Social Work. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Social Worker (Clinical) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes conducting bio-psychosocial evaluations of behavioral health patients, providing individual or group clinical counseling, and developing behavioral health treatment plans or recommendations.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
The GS-11 and GS-12 Social Worker positions require a current, active, valid, unrestricted clinical license to practice Social Work independently, offered by a U.S. State, District of Columbia, commonwealth, territory or jurisdiction. Do you possess a current, active, valid, unrestricted clinical license to practice Social Work independently? (You must provide a copy of your license with your application).

 Yes
 No


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙