Position Title
MWR Food and Beverage Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12853377 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the MWR Food and Beverage Manager position. Failure to respond to all question will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience managing a food and beverage operation that includes programming, marketing, catering and banquet operations?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a four-year degree in Food & Beverage Management or Business Administration or four years equivalent experience that includes specialized training in a variety of food and beverage service facilities, programming, marketing, catering and banquet operations?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with managing the daily operation of multiple types of dining establishments such as quick serve, fine dining and catering.
 My current position involves the above at a Manger level within the Department of Defense (DoD).
 My current position involves the above at a Manger level within the private sector.
 My current position involves the above at an Assistant Manager level within the Department of Defense (DoD).
 My current position involves the above at an Assistant Manager within the private sector.
 I have previous experience in a position with the above at an Assistant Manager or Manger level.
 I have no experience with the above at any level.


4.
Please select the response that best describes your general experience within a food and beverage operation.
 I have more than seven years of experience with the above.
 I have over five but less than seven years of experience with the above.
 I have over three but under five years of experience with the above.
 I have three years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Please select the response that best describes your accounting/procurement experience.
 My current position is within the Department of the Navy (DON) and involves responsibility for NAF accounting/ procurement practices and procedures within a program.
 My current position is within the Department of Defense (DoD) and involves responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures within a program.
 My current position involves responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures within the private sector.
 I have previous experience in a position that involved responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures in DON or DOD or private sector.
 I have no experience in a position that involved responsibility for accounting/ procurement practices and procedures in DON or DOD or private sector.


6.
Please select the response that best describes your education level.
 I have a 4-year degree in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 I have a 2-year degree in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 I have some college courses or a certificate in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.
 I do not have a degree or certificate in Food and Beverage, Hotel and Restaurant Management or Hospitality.


7.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with financial analysis or areas of growth and potential and development of promotions to increase patron utilization.
 I have more than seven years of experience with the above.
 I have over five but less than seven years of experience with the above.
 I have over three but under five years of experience with the above.
 I have three years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙