Position Title
Statistician
Agency
Food and Drug Administration
Announcement Number
FDA-CDRH-25-T21-12759003-DS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 03, 2025 to Jul 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?
You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


2.

===== Acknowledgement of Restrictions on the Employment of Relatives by Public Officials =====
5 U.S. Code, § 3110 lays out specific and important restrictions on the employment of relatives within an agency.
A public official of a government agency may not appoint, promote, or otherwise advocate for the employment, advancement, or promotion of relatives within the agency for which the public official is employed or has control over.
Employees hired in violation of 5 U.S. Code, § 3110 will not be entitled to any pay for their period of employment, and any pay already received before the violation becomes known, will be considered as a debt to the government on the part of the employed individual.

For the purpose of this question, a "relative" is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

QUESTION:
After having read the definition of "relative" as stated above, does the Food and Drug Administration employ any of your relatives?

IF YES: You must provide the following information, for each relative employed by the FDA:

The full legal name of the relative.
The relative's relationship to you (from the list above).
If known, the relative's employing organization and position.
IF NO: Please type "No" in the box below.


3.
Your responses to the all questions, and any information or documentation which you provide as part of your application, will be thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and truthfulness. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, your application will not be considered. Knowingly providing false information in your application (or submitted documentation) is a crime!
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
I understand that if I intentionally make a false statement, or commit deception or fraud in my application, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC, Sec 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR, Part 731).
I understand that any information I provide may be investigated.
I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Do you accept the conditions above?
 Yes
 No


4.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?
You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


5.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?


(Note: If you currently do not have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter you must request one from the Selective Service System. A copy of your proof of registration or the exemption/Status Information Letter must be provided prior to appointment.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


6.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959 AND you have NOT registered with the Selective Service System, do you have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter from the Selective Service System?


(Note: If you currently do not have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter you must request one from the Selective Service System. A copy of your proof of registration or the exemption/Status Information Letter must be provided prior to appointment.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


Assessment 1
In response to the items below, you will respond to questions about the experience you possess or have possessed that relate to the requirements of the position for which you are applying. Carefully review the response descriptions listed below. For each question, select the response(s) that best describes your experience and/or education required for the position.


1.
You must be a U.S. Citizen or U.S. National to be considered for this position. Foreign nationals or legal permanent residents are not eligible for consideration. Are you a U.S. Citizen or U.S. National?

 Yes, I am.
 No, I am not.


2.
From the responses below, select the response which best describes how you meet the education or experience requirements for the Statistician, AD-1530 position

 I possess a degree that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.
 I possess a combination of education and experience -- courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience as described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes how you meet the education and minimum years of experience requirements for the Statistician, AD-1530-00, Band C position.
 I have a bachelor's degree and have 4 years of comparable experience (1) applying broad areas of statistical theory, including techniques to originate and develop new statistical methods (2) Provide consultation and/or analyze data from studies utilizing sophisticate analytical techniques (3) Serving as an authority on the review and conduct of various studies; Plans and executes all phases of statistical analysis and leading work/studies.
 I have a master's degree and have 3 years of comparable experience (1) applying broad areas of statistical theory, including techniques to originate and develop new statistical methods (2) Provide consultation and/or analyze data from studies utilizing sophisticate analytical techniques (3) Serving as an authority on the review and conduct of various studies; Plans and executes all phases of statistical analysis and leading work/studies.
 I have a Doctorate and/or J.D. degree and have 1 year of comparable experience (1) applying broad areas of statistical theory, including techniques to originate and develop new statistical methods (2) Provide consultation and/or analyze data from studies utilizing sophisticate analytical techniques (3) Serving as an authority on the review and conduct of various studies; Plans and executes all phases of statistical analysis and leading work/studies.
 I have a MD, DO, DDS, DPM, or DVM degree and 0 years of experience (1) applying broad areas of statistical theory, including techniques to originate and develop new statistical methods (2) Provide consultation and/or analyze data from studies utilizing sophisticate analytical techniques (3) Serving as an authority on the review and conduct of various studies; Plans and executes all phases of statistical analysis and leading work/studies.
 I have 6 years of comparable experience (1) applying broad areas of statistical theory, including techniques to originate and develop new statistical methods (2) Provide consultation and/or analyze data from studies utilizing sophisticate analytical techniques (3) Serving as an authority on the review and conduct of various studies; Plans and executes all phases of statistical analysis and leading work/studies.
 I do not have a degree and/or possess the minimum years of relevant experience to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙