Position Title
RNA Therapeutic Analyst
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
MML-645-26-13052855-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce?  For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from a position in a Federal agency OTHER THAN the Department of Commerce? 

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a United States citizen?

 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No


3.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No


4.
How did you learn about this position?
College or University
Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
Conference or Meeting
Professional Organization
Job Fair
Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
USAJOBS search
NIST Careers website
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
None of the above
Other


5.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
Student Veterans of America National Conference
Maryland Community College Week (Frederick Community College, Montgomery College, or Howard Community College)
Colorado Trade School Week (Emily Griffith Technical College or BuildStrong Academy of Colorado)
Maryland Trade School Week (Anne Arundel Community College or North American Trade Schools – Baltimore)
Colorado Community College Week (Front Range Community College or Community College of Denver)
American Physical Society (APS) Global Physics Summit
Colorado State School Week (CU Denver, Colorado School of Mines, or CU Boulder)
Maryland State School Week (UMD, Johns Hopkins, UMBC, or Towson)
Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineering (IISE) Annual Conference & Expo
RecruitMilitary Fair - Phoenix
SkillsUSA National Leadership & Skills Conference
Disabled American Veterans Career Fair – Houston
Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology Conference
High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
Service Academy Career Conference
American Chemical Society (ACS) Conference 2026
American Legion National Convention
DC Religious School Week (Georgetown University or The Catholic University of America)
Denver Religious School Week (Regis University or Colorado Christian University)
Handshake Job Posting
LinkedIn Job Posting (NIST Careers)


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
How do you meet the BASIC qualification requirements for this position?
 I have a degree in Engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET.
 I have a degree in Engineering that includes differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT)1, or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE)2 examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 None of the above


2.
How do you meet the qualification requirements for the ZP-III?
 I have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 (ZP-II at NIST) or equivalent grade level as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙