Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Non-Medical Clinical Counselor)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12964538 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0180 - Psychology
 C. 0185 - Social Work


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for Tier II clinical providers described in SECNAVINST 1754.8, which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for Tier II clinical providers described in SECNAVINST 1754.8, do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for Tier II clinical providers described in SECNAVINST 1754.8, do you have two years full-time, post-masters supervised clinical experience?
 Yes
 No


4.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for this position, do you have at least 4 years' specialized experience in providing non-medical clinical counseling to individuals, couples, families, and/or groups on family dynamics, parent-child interactions, couples' communication, adjustment to commonly occurring personal and family issues/circumstances, adjustment to military life, and/or psycho-educational training programs?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙