Position Title
Interdisciplinary Engineer
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-POGS-26-13052745-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 C. 0854 - Computer Engineering
 D. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 E. 0861 - Aerospace Engineering
 F. 0896 - Industrial Engineering


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Evaluating contractor production engineering capabilities, manufacturing facilities, tooling, and master planning schedules to identify cost, and performance risks prior to and during contract execution; Demonstrating direct evaluation of contractor design, development, and testing efforts, as well as auditing systems for compliance; Analyzing complex performance data trends across systems engineering, supply chain management, and manufacturing operations; and Conducting Technical Support to Pricing (TSP), evaluating contractor cost proposals, and delivering engineering advice regarding engineering change proposals (ECPs).
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


2.
The purpose of this question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.

 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in professional engineering. The curriculum for this degree must have been gained through a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a) statics, dynamics; b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; d) thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and g) any other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science of physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by professional registration or licensure. (This includes current registration as an Engineering Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by and State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical science underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in response A above.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least one year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
When conducting daily surveillance activities, an engineer notices that a locally developed team-standard operating procedure (SOP) lacks clarity, and potentially conflicts with agency policy regarding procedures for reporting results of surveillance. Based on organization expectations, What is the engineer's primary responsibility in this situation?
 Modify the SOP independently to streamline reporting for their team.
 Skip the unclear reporting step until the process is officially updated by leadership.
 Provide feedback to the team supervisor regarding the potential conflict with policy and clarity of the reporting procedures based on daily application.
 Provide surveillance results using a non-standard contractor format without notifying the team supervisor.


4.
You are tasked with planning, executing, and documenting surveillance of a contractor's engineering management systems. How should you structure and carry out this surveillance on behalf of the organization?

 Conduct unannounced site visits once per year without applying specific organizational performance indicators, documenting only major deficiencies.
 Monitor contractor engineering processes on an ad-hoc basis whenever issues arise, documenting findings in informal weekly email updates to the team lead.
 Rely entirely on contractor self-assessments for engineering efforts, focusing surveillance exclusively on the prime contractor's reporting.
 Plan, and document surveillance in the agency system of record, and execute surveillance using established criteria identified in engineering surveillance processes, evaluating contractor/subcontractor engineering management systems, and engineering technical efforts.


5.
How should a contractor's performance be evaluated during planned engineering surveillance?

 Verify that all contract clauses are correct
 Analyze contractor’s past performance for presence of open CARs.
 Assess contractor’s compliance with contractual terms for schedule, cost and technical performance.
 Assess if proper training and certification is documented.
 Verify that Inspection and Acceptance is at Origin/Source.


6.
When briefing senior leadership on a complex engineering project's status, what is the most important element to include?

 A complete, unabridged history of the project from inception.
 A highly technical deep dive into every engineering challenge encountered.
 A clear, concise summary including predictive analysis of the project's status, risks, and required decisions, tailored to the audience.
 A list of all personnel currently working on the project.
 A detailed breakdown of every dollar spent to date.


7.
What is Engineering's role with respect to Configuration Change Management (CCM) documents (RFV/ECP) during contract execution?

 Forward to the buying activity for action.
 Ensure they are adequately supported technically, appropriately classified, and processed in accordance with the contract requirements and policy.
 Documented in the organization’s local log.
 Planned activities captured in the Surveillance Plan and execution actions summarized in a Surveillance Record.
 Verify that the contracting officer has not withheld CCM review authority.


8.
What is the most critical component of an official Engineering technical report?

 Using complex vocabulary to impress the reader.
 Ensuring the document is visually appealing with many graphics.
 The accuracy of the data, the clarity of the findings, and the traceability of the conclusions.
 The length of the report, with longer being better.
 A strong, opinionated conclusion unsupported by the data.


9.
Which of the following best describes the execution criteria an engineer must follow when carrying out contract administration?

 Following preferred engineering management procedures exclusively.
 Performing all work in accordance with organization’s policies, standards, metrics, and standard operating procedures.
 Prioritizing speed of delivery over established organization reporting requirements.
 Relying solely on past operational experience without applying current organization, policies, tools or standards.


10.
A contractor submits an Engineering Change Proposal (ECP) to the government engineering office for concurrence of classification, but on this contract, the contracting officer has withheld ECP concurrence authority. What is the appropriate action?

 Return the ECP to the contractor and refer them to contract requirements for ECP submission and concurrence authority.
 Process the ECP, and notify the contracting officer, since the government processes most ECPs from this contractor.
 Contact the contracting officer and inquire about the ECP concurrence authority being withheld.
 Call the contractor and verbally approve the ECP.
 Ignore the ECP and wait for the contractor to inquire.


11.
DCMA Cost & Pricing requests engineering provide Technical Pricing Support in reviewing a contractor's large-scale proposal. The proposal's Basis of Estimate (BOE) includes a significant allocation of high-level systems engineering hours for a low-risk, mature product line. How do you approach this review?

 Cross-reference historical engineering and manufacturing data, determine if the proposed engineering labor hours exceed current need based on historical baselines, and author a Technical Support to Negotiations report detailing specific labor adjustments for the pricing team.
 Compare the proposal against standard engineering baseline estimates, note that the labor hours seem high, and submit a brief memo to the pricing team stating the hours should be reduced by a flat 15%.
 Validate the labor categories and hours as submitted, assuming the contractor’s internal engineering team accurately forecasted the complex systems integration needs for the program.
 Advise the pricing team to accept the labor estimates as-is because pricing decisions fall outside the scope of engineering surveillance functions.


12.
A response to a technical inquiry must be sent to a diverse group of stakeholders, including technical engineers and non-technical contracting managers. How should the message be structured?

 Write the response using highly technical jargon to demonstrate expertise.
 Create two separate responses, one for each group.
 Begin with a clear, executive summary in plain language, followed by detailed technical sections for those who need them.
 Send a very brief response with a link to a dense, 50-page technical report.
 Use only acronyms to keep the message concise.


13.
During Contract Receipt and Review of a newly awarded contract, you discover a direct conflict: the written Statement of Work (SOW) mandates the use of an obsolete military standard, while the attached Technical Data Package (TDP) drawings require a newer, commercial industry standard. As the government oversight engineer, how is the most appropriate way to resolve this discrepancy?

 Use your engineering judgment to verbally direct the contractor to follow the newer commercial standard, as technical drawings generally supersede the SOW, and DoD policy prefers commercial standards.
 Document the ambiguity, formulate a technical recommendation supporting the newer standard, and coordinate with your contracting officer to submit a formal request for clarification to the buying command (Procuring Contracting Officer) to modify the contract.
 Notify the contractor of the discrepancy and instruct them to submit a formal Engineering Change Proposal (ECP) at their own expense to correct the government's documentation error so work can begin.
 Approve the contract review without noting the issue, assuming the contractor understood the true intent when they submitted their proposal and will resolve it internally during production.


14.
During early phases of a major production contract, the contractor identifies a new technical risk that could impact the future delivery schedule. As the government engineer providing oversight, how should you proceed to address this risk effectively while respecting contract boundaries?

 Recommend to the Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) that the contractor halt work on the affected components and personally draft a step-by-step risk mitigation and recovery plan for them to execute.
 Verify that the contractor has documented the risk in their risk management system, evaluate their proposed mitigation plan for technical feasibility, and collaborate with the program office to assess life cycle and operational impacts.
 Monitor the contractor’s progress during regularly scheduled technical reviews, ensuring they track the risk, but refrain from active evaluation of their mitigation steps to maintain clear contractual liability boundaries.
 Recommend that the contracting officer issue a cure notice immediately, as any newly identified technical risk that threatens performance thresholds constitutes a material breach of contract.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙