Position Title
Director, Existing Chemical Risk Management Division
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-ES-26-12975282 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a graduate of a Senior Executive Service Candidate Development Program (SES CDP)?

If your answer is yes, please be sure to upload your certification of completion from an OPM-approved SES Candidate Development Program (CDP). This applies only if your ECQs have been approved by an OPM Qualifications Review Board through the SES CDP.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently serving on a permanent career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointment?

If your answer is yes, please be sure to upload an SF-50 showing your status as a current career SES employee.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you eligible for reinstatement to a career Senior Executive Service (SES) position?

If your answer is yes, please be sure to upload an SF-50 showing eligibility for reinstatement into a career SES position.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Durham, NC
 C. Cincinnati, OH


Instructions
Please read the "Required Documents" section and ensure that you submit the listed information online when you apply to this vacancy. It is recommended that you review your application materials after they have been uploaded to your application to ensure they conform to the requirements stated in the announcement. Your application will not be considered if any required document is missing, if your resume exceeds the 2-page limit stated in the announcement, or if your resume does not address the required Executive Core Qualifications or Technical Qualifications. If you have any questions or concerns regarding your application, please contact the HR Specialist listed on the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙