Position Title
OPTICAL INSTRUMENT REPAIRER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13014674-AR-26-100 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E1 - E7 or WO1 - CW2?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E7.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW2.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E1 - E7 or WO1 - CW2.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training that has provided the candidate with the ability to apply knowledge of optical theory and construction principles in order to test, repair, align, and collimate a variety of complex optical equipment. Experience which demonstrates the ability to understand and apply instructions, and specifications; and interpret blueprints and diagrams of optical paths and mechanical linkages. Experience using hand and power tools common to an optical shop.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-10: Do you posses 18 months experience or training repairing, rebuilding, overhauling systems and components of optical instrument equipment. Experience in diagnosing malfunction in determining remedy where complex relationships exist among optical systems and supporting mechanical and electrical systems. Experience in the use of a variety of measuring and testing equipment. Experience interpreting technical manuals, blueprints, schematics and work orders.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience repairing, troubleshooting, and overhauling a wide variety of optical instruments, ranging from complex panoramic telescopes to less complex devices such as binoculars, transits, and searchlights. In your response, specifically address how you evaluate and repair the supporting mechanical and electrical elements of these systems alongside the optics.


4.
Explain your experience handling highly complex and specialized optical devices, such as L.A.S.E.R. range finders, ballistic computing range-finders, or hermetically sealed articulated telescopes. Discuss how you utilize technical manuals to obtain proper setup procedures and your experience interpreting and applying prescribed Modification Work Orders (MWOs) to these systems.


5.
Describe your background in testing and repairing electrical circuits and high-voltage power sources, particularly those used in night vision devices. Highlight the specific diagnostic equipment you use (e.g., voltmeters, ohmmeters, multi-voltage test sets) and detail the strict safety precautions you follow when working with high-voltage circuits, compressors, hoses, and tank testing equipment.


6.
Detail your technical process for visually inspecting and diagnosing optical equipment malfunctions. Please provide specific examples of how you disassemble equipment, check lenses and prisms for aberrations, and use precision measuring tools and fixtures (such as micrometers, dial indicators, and binocular collimator fixtures) to reassemble, align, and collimate the instruments.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙