Position Title
Business Activities Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-124R Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the certifications and/or experience to qualify for the Business Activities Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience and/or education as it relates to this position. This experience must be documented in your resume.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NF-04/GS-9 grade level. Specialized experience must demonstrate the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation related to the position.
 I have Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience, described above.
 None of the statements above apply to me.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your skill in business activities program management. Business activities programs include Pubs, Snack Bars, Theater, Bowling and Golf.  Program management elements include assessing needs of the population, planning programs, operating facilities, evaluation, and marketing/promotion.
 I have experience managing at least two of the following business activities programs: Pubs, Snack Bar, theater, Bowling and Golf.
 I have experience managing a Theater, a Bowling or a Golf program within DoD.
 I have experience managing similar business activities outside DoD.
 Not applicable


3.
Select the statement that best describes your skill in personnel management. This includes supervising, hiring, training, evaluating, coaching, discipline, recognition, EEO, etc.
 I have 1 or more years of experience supervising NAF or GS managers.
 I have 3 or more years of experience supervising NAF or GS employees
 I have 1 or more years of general supervisory experience
 I have less than 1 year of general supervisory experience.


4.
Please select the statement that best describes your skill in financial resource management, including cash handling procedures; procurement policies and procedures; inventory control; and NAF financial analysis and budget planning.
 I have 3 or more years of experiences in all areas of financial resource management within Navy NAF.
 I have 1-3 or more years of experiences in some areas of financial resource management within Navy NAF.
 I have 3 or more years of experiences in all areas of financial resource management within DoD.
 I have 1-3 or more years of experiences in some areas of financial resource management within DoD
 I have experience in financial resource management outside of DoD.
 I have no experience in any financial resource management.


5.
Please select the statement that best describes your skill in facility management; including equipment replacement, submitting/monitoring work request, preventative maintenance planning, facility renovations and construction.
 I have 3 or more years of experience in all areas of facility management within Navy NAF.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in some areas of facility management within Navy NAF.
 I have 3 or more years of experience in all areas of facility management within DoD.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in some areas of facility management within DoD.
 I have experience in facility management outside of DoD
 I have no experience in any type of facility manangement


6.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience supervising local national employees in an overseas environment.
 I have experience supervising local national employees in an overseas environment.
 I have no experience supervising local national employees in an overseas environment.


7.
Are you currently residing in Naples, Italy? (Documentation must be uploaded)
 I am a SOFA sponsored DoD Civilian, Spouse or Dependent on orders to and residing in Naples
 I am not currently residing in Naples, Italy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙