Position Title
Park Ranger (Interpretation)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-4542-FRST-13044475-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current National Park Service (NPS) Employee (Promotional):

Are you a current career/career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2) National Park Service employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current NPS employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a lower grade level than the position being announced or lower than the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Wage System/Trade Positions) Current NPS employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a pay rate that is below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current National Park Service employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent National Park Service employee applying for competitive Promotion?
 Yes
 No


3.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Current National Park Service Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)
To claim non-competitive eligibility as a Current career or career-conditional National Park Service employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same (or higher grade level) with the same (or higher promotion potential) as the position being announced.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same (or higher) rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current National Park Service employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current National Park Service employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. New Castle, DE
 B. Wilmington, DE


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


3.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


4.
Are you including a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.


Individual Occupational Requirements (IORs) (SCREEN OUT)


1.
Choose one answer which best describes your education and experience as related to the qualifications requirements for the Park Ranger (Interpretation) position at the grade GS-05 level. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a copy of your transcripts. Copies must include your name, school name, credit hours, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. We cannot determine eligibility without this information. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).

 I have at least one year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park related work. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, Park Guide or tour leader; law enforcement or investigative work; archeological or historical preservation research work; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work.
 I have successfully completed at least a 4-year course of study above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with 24 semester hours of related course work in a major study such as: natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. You must include transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described above. To calculate your percentage of qualifying graduate education, divide your number of semester hours in excess of 60 semester hours by 120, or the number your school uses to represent one year of full-time graduate academic study. To calculate your percentage of experience, divide your months of qualifying specialized experience by 12. Add the two percentages. They must equal at least 100% to qualify using this option. Note: You must include a copy of your academic transcripts with your application if qualifying on education and you must include hours per week worked on your resume.
 My experience and/or education do not match any of the above descriptions.


2.
Choose one answer which best describes your education and experience as related to the qualifications requirements for the Park Ranger (Interpretation) position at the grade GS-7 level. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a copy of your transcripts. Copies must include your name, school name, credit hours, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. We cannot determine eligibility without this information. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park-related work. Examples of specialized experience could include park guide or tour leader; law enforcement or investigative work; archeological or historical preservation research work; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to that of at least the GS-05 grade level in the federal service. (Note: One grade interval work such as guide, clerk, assistant or technician work in a single grade occupational series at the GS-05 level does NOT generally qualify for this position, however GS-06 level experience may).You MUST include hours per week worked in your resume.
 I have one full year of graduate study in a related field or I have achieved superior academic achievement. Related fields include natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources. (One year of graduate education is 18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours, or the number your school uses to represent one year.) You must include hours worked per week in your resume and a copy of your transcripts. NOTE: Superior Academic Achievement (SAA): Successfully completed a bachelor's degree in a directly related field AND meet one of the following: (1) Class Standing: rank in the upper 3rd of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, based on the completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (GPA): earn a GPA of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on 4 years of education, or based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum -or- (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field, or the required courses completed during the final two years. Note: GPA will be rounded to the one decimal place, for example, 2.95 = 3.0, 2.94 = 2.9; OR (3) Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society.
 I have a combination of experience and education. To compute this percentage, first divide the total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide the number of completed post high school semester hours of education (that are in excess of 120 semester hours) by 120. Add the two percentages together; the total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. NOTE: Only post high school education in excess of more than four-years may be used to qualify for this position and must include 24 semester hours of related course work such as those listed above.
 My experience and/or education do not match any of the above descriptions.


3.
Choose one answer which best describes your education and experience as related to the qualifications requirements for the Park Ranger (Interpretation) position at the grade GS-9 level. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must submit a copy of your transcripts. Copies must include your name, school name, credit hours, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. We cannot determine eligibility without this information. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform successfully the duties of the position to be filled. Experience may have been in technical, administrative, or scientific work, fish and wildlife management, recreation management, law enforcement, or other park-related work. Examples of specialized experience could include park guide or tour leader; law enforcement or investigative work; archeological or historical preservation research work; forestry and/or fire management work in a park, recreation, or conservation area; management, assistant, or program specialist work involving the development and/or implementation of policy related to protection, conservation, or management of park areas or similar operations; or other similar work. To be creditable, this experience must have been equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to that of at least the GS-07 grade level in the federal service. You MUST include hours per week worked in your resume.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or have successfully completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education with major field of study in natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement, police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources.
 I have a combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience to meet the requirements of the position. To compute this percentage, first divide the total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide the number of completed graduate level education semester hours of education (that are in excess of 18 semester hours) by 36. Add the two percentages together; the total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. NOTE: Only graduate level education in excess of more than one-year may and must be in a major such as those listed above be used to qualify for this position.
 My experience and/or education do not match any of the above descriptions.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙