Position Title
Installation Child and Youth Program Director (small or medium)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12951784 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience to qualify for the Installation CYP Director (Small or Medium) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in Early Childhood Education, Child Development Elementary Education, Special Education (concentration in ECE), Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), Child Care Administration or related field of study and four years of specialized experience in managing and supervising facility-based child and youth programs.
 I have an unrelated degree, with a combination of education and experience; education must include courses in a child-related field and total minimum of 24 higher level semester hours. In addition, I have four years of specialized experience in managing and supervising facility-based child and youth programs.
 I do not have a bachelor’s degree or higher, but have a combination of education and experience, which includes courses in a child-related field totaling a minimum of 24 higher level semester credit hours. In addition, I have four years of specialized experience in managing and supervising facility-based child and youth programs.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?

 I have a master's degree or higher in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), Child Care Administration, or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a bachelor’s degree in early childhood education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), childcare administration, or a related field of study that includes a major study in education.
 I have a non-related degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child development programs which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and facility management?
 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4 years described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child ad Youth Program.
 I have less than 1 year of experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to child and youth programs?
 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4 years described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 4+ years' experience, as described above, at the director level outside the Department of War (DOW).
 I have 4 or more years of experience, at a non-director level.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in applying family child care regulations (e.g., Federal, State, local, etc.)?
 I have 4+ years of experience, as described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 4 years described above, at the director level in a Department of War (DOW) Child and Youth Program.
 I have more than 2 years of experience as an FCC Monitor or Trainer
 I have no experience in the above.
 I have more than 2 years of experience supporting community-based FCC.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years’ experience, as described above.
 I have 5-10 years’ experience, as described above.
 I have 1-5 years' experience, as describe above.
 I have less than 1 year experience, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
Do you have programming and management experience in one or more of the following DoW Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDCs), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC), Youth Programs (YPs), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?

 I have programming and management experience managing in all four of the DoW CYP areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience managing in at least three of the DoW CYP areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience managing in at least two of the DoW CYP areas described above.
 I have programming and management experience in one of the DoW CYP areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙