Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (VISN 1 Imaging Program Manager)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12969661-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following question(s) that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position is open to current, permanent employees of VISN 1 only. Are you a current employee of VISN 1? (SF-50 required)
 Yes
 No


2.
This is not a remote position. The incumbent must be located within a commuting distance of one of the 8 facilities in VISN 1 to include: Augusta, ME; White River Junction, VT; Bedford, MA; Boston, MA (CAMPUSES include::West Roxbury, Brockton and Jamaica Plains); Leeds, MA; Manchester, NH; Providence, RI; or West Haven, CT. Are you physically located within the commuting distance of one of the above campuses?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have an American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R) certification? (Current Certification must be submitted with your application for consideration.)
 Yes
 No


6.
Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the ARRT and certification by the ARRT in radiology? (Educational transcripts will need to be submitted with your application for consideration.)
 Yes
 No


7.
To be considered, you must have at least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. GS-12 qualifying experience includes: assuming full administrative and professional responsibility for planning and directing the radiologic technology program at medical center or independent outpatient clinic that does not meet the level of complexity described at the GS-12 level for a chief radiologic technologist and has significant supervisory responsibility for staff.

In addition to meeting the qualifying experience, you must also demonstrate the following GS-12 KSA's:
Ability to develop and initiate new imaging services that apply current research findings.
Ability to participate as an instructor in the facility's in-service clinical training findings.
Ability to interview and evaluate candidates for positions in the section and recommend appointments, advancements, or, when appropriate, disciplinary actions.
Ability to evaluate performance, identify continuing education and training needs, etc.
Ability to analyze organizational, technical, and administrative problems and to develop and implement solutions that result in efficient section operation.
Skill in participating in organizational facility initiatives, workgroups, and/or committees.
Ability to draft and/or recommend organizational policies and/or directives.
AND
You must also demonstrate the following GS-13 KSAs that are required for the GS-13 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist:
Knowledge of VISN or national initiatives and/or intra-agency workgroups or committees.
Ability to develop and/or recommend national policies and/or directives.
Ability to perform VHA Central Office special projects and activities.
Skill in managing resources at a complex facility or organization, i.e., space, equipment, supplies, personnel a regional or national level.
Do you meet the experience requirements for this position? (Your resume must reflect experience to be considered)
 Yes
 No


Documentation Reminder - You must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action. The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month and year with start and end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙