Position Title
Medical Records Technician (HIT)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12975536-26-DMM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


English Language Proficiency. MRT HITs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


Definitions: (a.) Experience is only creditable if it is paid or non-paid employment directly related to the position to be filled, or in a related field, such as medical support assistants, clinic/ward clerks, health record file room/scanning technicians, medical coding, or other positions that include knowledge of the content and uses of health records. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current MRT HIT practice. (b.) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference or through other independent means. (c.) Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional MRT is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time work week. For example, an MRT would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.


Health information technology falls under the jurisdiction of Health Information Management (HIM). The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) Health Information Technician (HIT) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRTs HIT in the GS- 0675 series. MRTs HIT perform incomplete health record analysis. They review, analyze, abstract, maintain, extract, and compile information from the health record. MRTs HIT check for accuracy, completeness, and timeliness of the health record and monitor and report for regulatory compliance.


2.
All Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) are required to have at least one of the following basic required Experience and/or Education: Select the appropriate statement that best describes your experience and/or education.

 Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, and a general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT HIT work.
 Education. An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management. (b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the U.S. Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.
 Grandfathering Provision. As of December 10, 2019, I was employed in VHA as a permanent MRT-HIT (Medical Records Technician-Health Information Technician), and I am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/ registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. I may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation, but will not be promoted beyond the journey level GS-07) or placed in supervisory or managerial positions.
 I do not have the basic education and or experience for the MRT HIT position as listed in A-E above.


Grade Requirements. In addition to the basic requirement, the following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician). Education and experience will be verified.


Assignment Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician), GS-04 Entry Level. Employees at this level serve as entry level MRTs HIT, and receive close supervision from the supervisory MRT HIT or designee. MRTs HIT analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.), with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accrediting bodies. They perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures. They monitor, verify, correct, and upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records.


Experience or Education for the MRT HIT, GS-04, none beyond the basic requirements.


3.
For the GS-04 MRT HIT. At a minimum you must have the basic requirements for the position. Select the option that best describes your qualification for the GS-04, MRT HIT position.

 I have at least the basic education and/or experience for the GS-04, MRT HIT that are listed above.
 I do NOT have the basic education and or experience for the GS-04 MRT HIT that are listed above.


Assignment: Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) GS-05 Developmental Level-1. Employees at this grade level serve in developmental positions as MRTs HIT. Employees receive guidance from the supervisory MRT HIT, or designee, for more complex health record reviews. MRTs HIT analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.) with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accreditation requirement. They perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures. They create and monitor reports to ensure that deficiencies are resolved and completed appropriately. They monitor, verify, correct, and/or upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records. MRTs HIT notify clinical providers regarding incomplete health records, and assist clinical providers regarding completeness of their health record documentation. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities for the GS-05 MRT HIT, Development Level-1 (a) Ability to communicate effectively with internal and external customers. (b) Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in health information management positions (e.g., Microsoft Excel, electronic health records, and delinquency tracking software). (c) Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and industry standards. (d) Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes. (e) Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy to fully understand the content of a health record.


4.
For the MRT HIT, GS-05, select the option that best describes your experience and/or education.

 I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower level, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-05 MRT HIT position. This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy & physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records). Must provide transcripts with your application.
 I do not have the education or experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSA for the MRT HIT, GS-05.


Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) GS-06. This is a developmental level for MRT HIT. The MRT HIT at this level receives guidance from the supervisory MRT HIT, or designee, for more complex health records. The MRT HIT analyzes, abstracts, maintains, extracts and compiles information from the health record, working under the review of the supervisor. They analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.) with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accreditation requirements. They coordinate and/or perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures. The MRT HIT notifies clinical providers regarding incomplete health records. They assist clinical providers regarding completeness of their health record documentation, and the correction of health records. They conduct reviews of incomplete records for individuals clearing the facility. They create and monitor reports to ensure that deficiencies are resolved and completed appropriately. They monitor, verify, correct, and/or upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records. MRTs HIT serve as the technical experts in health record content and documentation requirements. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: (a) Ability to navigate efficiently through the health record to locate needed information. (b) Ability to analyze health record documentation to ensure compliance with guidelines and industry standards. (c) Skill in investigating potential health record errors and making corrections, when appropriate. (d) Skill in interpreting and applying health information guidelines and using judgment to complete assignments. (e) Ability to follow up on incomplete health record documentation.


5.
For the MRT HIT, GS-06, select the option that best describes your experience.

 I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-06, MRT HIT. This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 I do not have the experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-06 MRT HIT.


Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician), GS-7 (Full Performance Level). This is considered the journey level for MRTs HIT. MRTs HIT at this level review, analyze, abstract, maintain, extract, and compile information from the health record independently with minimal supervision. They analyze health records for accuracy, completeness, timeliness, consistency, and compliance (e.g., scanned, uploaded, use of correct titles, linked to correct encounters, etc.) with HIM industry standards, policies, procedures, laws, regulations, and accreditation requirements. They also coordinate and/or perform health record review activities to satisfy external accreditation requirements and medical center performance measures. They communicate regularly with staff at various levels of the organization regarding delinquent health records, and notify individual clinical providers regarding incomplete medical records. MRTs HIT prepare complex reports, calculate department statistics, note the status of all incomplete/delinquent records, and submit reports to the appropriate administrative and clinical staff and committees/leadership to ensure deficiencies are resolved and completed appropriately. They serve as the expert resource for clinical staff and assist clinical providers with completion or correction of their health record documentation. They conduct the review of incomplete records for individuals clearing the facility. MRTs HIT coordinate the use of medical speech recognition/transcription and monitor, verify, troubleshoot, correct, and/or upload all transcription/medical speech recognition to maintain completeness and accuracy of health records. They serve as the technical expert in health record content and documentation requirements. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: (a) Ability to judge whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support education and research needs. (b) Ability to take appropriate actions if health record content is not adequate, accurate, timely, and/or reliable. (c) Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with individuals or groups, to facilitate compliance with established policies and regulations. (d) Skill in using appropriate software and computer applications to analyze and record documentation trends. (e) Ability to apply qualitative and/or quantitative methods for assessment and improvement of health records. (f) Ability to work independently and utilize problem-solving techniques in the accomplishment of work.


6.
For the MRT HIT, GS-07, (Full Performance Level), select the option that best describes your experience.

 I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-07, MRT (HIT) position. This experience and the KSAs are documented in my resume.
 I do not have the experience, and/or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-07 MRT (HIT).


Resume Reminder - ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Your resume must include your contact information, phone, email, and address. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer Name (2.) Employer City, State (3.) Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc). (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to.

We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


7.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed.
 No, I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRT work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. Failure to provide a transcript(s) will result in NOT being referred.


SF-50 Reminder - If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action." The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.


Additional documentation may be required such as transcripts, SF-50(s), etc., and will be indicated in the vacancy announcement under the "Required Documents" section. Failure to provide the required document(s) will result in not being referred.


8.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instructions and failure to provide the required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement, failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 No, I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙