Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Biologist/General Engineer/Physical Scientist)
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-DO-26-IMP-12973736-ERW Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Competitive)

To claim Competitive eligibility as a Current Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm:

You currently hold a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) You currently hold a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent Bureau of Reclamation employee applying for competitive Promotion?

 Yes
 No


2.
Current Bureau of Reclamation Employee (Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade, Re-Promotion)

To claim Non-Competitive eligibility as a Current Bureau of Reclamation employee, please confirm you are applying to be considered for one of the following:
Reassignment: You currently hold the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Change to Lower Grade: You currently hold a higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential than the position being advertised.
Re-Promotion: You have previously held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
Trades Positions: You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent Bureau of Reclamation employee applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change to Lower Grade or Re-Promotion?
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former term or temporary employee of a Land Management Agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation); AND
You were originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND
You served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND
You performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND
You have been separated for no more than two years and departed that position in good standing, if you are no longer employed by the land management agency.
To verify LMWFA eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: 
Your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, or equivalent personnel action.
Your Notification of Personnel Action(s), Standard Form 50(s) reflecting you meet the time-in-grade regulations in 5 CFR 300, subpart F.
Your performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act FAQs.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 0801 - General Engineering
 C. 1301 - General Physical Science


2.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


3.
Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.).


4.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.


5.
I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 Yes
 No


You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.


6.
My performance is at an acceptable level and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No


7.
This position is designated as a Non-Critical Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated National Security Background Investigation (T3 or T3R or equivalent - specific level depends on risk level component of position designation) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Bureau of Reclamation. Your application for the position of Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Biologist, General Engineer, or Physical Scientist) will be evaluated based on your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. 

Your resume MUST contain hours worked per week and the dates of employment identified in months and years. If your resume does not contain this information, your application will be marked as incomplete, and you will not receive consideration for this position. You must be clear when describing your experience, we may not make assumptions in determining qualifications. If your resume does not clearly reflect the experience as noted in the vacancy announcement, your application will be marked as ineligible.

Resumes must not exceed two single-sided pages and resumes longer than two pages will not be accepted. The minimum font size is 10-point for all body text. Headers may be slightly larger but must remain legible. All resumes must maintain a minimum 0.5-inch margins on all sides to ensure readability and prevent excessive content compression. Including supplemental pages or attachments disguised as resume extensions are prohibited and will not be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. 

You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation listed under the "How to Apply" tab (i.e., transcripts, DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF- 50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Current/Former federal employees that fail to submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal will have their application marked as incomplete.


1.
GS-15 [0401]: Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the basic educational requirements for a GS-0401, General Natural Resources Management and Biological Science (Transcripts are required to support your claims).
 I have successfully completed a 4-year degree leading to a bachelors or higher degree in the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry or related disciplines appropriate to this position.
 I have successfully completed a combination of accredited college/university courses in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to this position and have additional education/work experience. The combination of education/experience is sufficient to demonstrate that I possess the knowledge, skills and abilities required to perform the professional duties of this position and is comparable to a full 4-year course of study.
 I do not meet either of the qualification requirement statements as described above.


2.
GS-15 [1301]: Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the basic educational requirements for a GS-1301, General Physical Science (Transcripts are required to support your claims).
 I have successfully completed a 4-year degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience - coursework as described above which included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


3.
GS-15 [0801]: Please select the response below that best describes how you meet the basic educational requirements for a GS-0801, General Engineer (Transcripts are required to support your claims).
 I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by my current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any state, the District or Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by successfully passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science and including engineering courses specified in Choice B.
 I completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision.
 I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirement as described.


4.
In addition to meeting the basic education requirements for this position, please select the response that best describes your experience in relation to the minimum qualifications for this position.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. This experience is related to the work of the position and equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service as described in the vacancy announcement.
 None


5.
I am applying as a current/former federal employee.
 Yes, I am applying as a current/former federal employee and acknowledge I must upload a copy of my most recent performance appraisal or a written statement as to why it is not available. I understand failure to do so will result in my application being marked as incomplete.
 No, I am not applying as a current/former federal employee and not required to upload my most recent performance appraisal or a written statement with my application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


7.
I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt- out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙