Position Title
Supervisory Financial Management Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12958318-NE-AH-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Merit Promotion

Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities: Current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status.

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (Tenure is located in box 24 and should reflect "1" or "2" AND Position Occupied is located in box 34 and should reflect "1").; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action- If you are a current or former federal employee, you must submit a SF-50 showing the highest grade level held in the position for which you are using to qualify. 
A pay adjustment, QSI or award SF-50 is not acceptable. 

Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-11 position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this GS-11 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-11 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-09 level in the federal service.
 I qualify for this GS-11 position on the basis of education, via possessing a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree (OR) 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree (OR) LL.M, if related.
 My experience does not match either of the choices above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙