Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC LEADER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13028523-AR-26-133A Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (FMS #18) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (FMS #18) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E5-E7)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WL-5801-10 Surface Maintenance Mechanic Leader.
 I HAVE experience or training 1) that has provided me with sufficient knowledge to complete the work of this occupational series and 2) demonstrates my ability to lead other technicians engaged in the duties performed by this occupational series.
 I DO NOT HAVE the above listed experience or training.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a WL-5801-10 Surface Maintenance Mechanic Leader.
 In addition to the journeyman level knowledge,, I HAVE 1) at least 24 months experience which demonstrates my ability to plan, organize, and lead the work of others in fields directly related the repair function of this occupational serie, 2) the ability to perform administrative functions; to read and interpret a variety of technical publications used in the repair of supported equipment, and 3) the ability to provide guidance to others in work related directly to this occupational series.
 I DO NOT have at least 24 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙