Position Title
Marketing Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0163R Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have 1 year of general experience OR 2 years of education above the high school level. (Must provide a copy of your transcripts).
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience providing administrative support within a marketing or communications office (e.g., controlling correspondence, responding to inquiries, preparing routine correspondence).
 More than 2 years of experience providing administrative support within a marketing or communications office.
 1-2 years providing administrative support within a marketing or communications office
 3-12 months of general office experience
 Less than 3 months


3.
Assisting with the coordination and publicity of programs or events (e.g., maintaining calendars, distributing posters/flyers, coordinating with media sources).

 More than 2 years
 1-2 years
 3-12 months
 Less than 3 months


4.
Experience in creating or drafting content for various media (e.g., articles for newsletters/newspapers, text for brochures, social media posts).

 More than 2 years
 1-2 years
 3-12 months or academic/volunteer experience only
 Less than 3 months


5.
Experience using software to create marketing materials (e.g., Canva, Adobe Creative Suite, Microsoft Publisher, video editing software).

 Proficient in multiple platforms with more than 1 year of regular use.
 Basic to intermediate skill in at least one platform with 6-12 months of use.
 Limited exposure or academic use only.
 I do not have the experience


6.
Assisting with marketing research (e.g., finding resources for events, identifying sponsorship opportunities, analyzing program cost-effectiveness).

 More than 1 year of direct experience assisting with marketing research.
 6-12 months of experience.
 Limited to no direct experience; academic research experience only.
 I do not have the experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙