Position Title
Health Technician (Pedorthist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12831987-26-KK Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 13, 2025 to Tuesday, November 25, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position. This assessment questionnaire will be used to assist us to determine your eligibility and qualifications. Please answer truthfully and ensure you double check your answers prior to submission. You will also need to ensure you have demonstrated your qualifications on your resume. This position is at the full performance level, which means you will need to have experience at the next lower grade level, and such experience needs to be demonstrated on your resume.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g of VA HB 5005.)

Are you a United States Citizen?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Health Technician (Pedorthist) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. ?7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


3.
Credential / Certification - Documentation Submitted
(1) Candidates must be board certified in pedorthics by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC).

or

(2) Credentialed in pedorthics by the Board of Certification/Accreditation (BOC).
or

(3) Exception for Non-Credentialed Health Aid (Pedorthist). (a) Non-credentialed individuals who have successfully completed a Board for Certification in Pedorthics (BCP), Commission on Accreditation of Pedorthic Education (CAPE), National Commission on Orthotic and Prosthetic Education (NCOPE), Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or American Board for Certification of Orthotics, Prosthetics and Pedorthics (ABC) approved pedorthic certificate program (see Pedorthist Programs) and otherwise meet ABC's eligibility requirements for certification (see Pedorthist Candidate Guide) may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Aid (Pedorthist) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).

Do you meet one of these certification requirements?

Note: You must submit documentation.
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATIONS. All individuals assigned to this occupation must meet all the basic qualification requirements above and all qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Requirements - Health Tech (Pedorthist) - GS-7
 Yes
 No


Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupational series or in another occupational series, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement, performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and credentialing/certification, where applicable. The following provisions apply to employees who do not meet all the qualification requirements: Employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or be newly placed in a supervisory or managerial positions. Employees in an occupation that requires a credentialing only at higher grade levels must meet the credentialing requirement before they can be promoted to those higher grade levels. Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard. Employees who are converted to title 38 hybrid status under this provision and subsequently leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of re-entry to the occupation. Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtains credentialing/certification that meets all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) - GS-7

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.
Skill in designing advanced pedorthic devices.
Skill in assessing device types for structural soundness and meeting the specifications of the prescription.
Skill in written communication.
Skill in oral communication.
Skill in fabrication of all pedorthic device types.
Skill in designing innovative pedorthic devices to include new and emerging technology.
Note: Your resume must reflect how you are able to meet the KSAs above.

Are you able to meet the GS-7 level KSAs listed?

 Yes
 No


REMINDERS: Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each position listed: Job Title; Grade Level - if applicable; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Employment dates (month and year started and ended) (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); and hours worked per week. Be aware that your answers will be verified against the information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Transcript - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. SF-50 for Federal Employees - If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date (shown in box 4) within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess the 1 year specialized experience, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50. The yearly Cost of Living Adjustment SF-50, issued in January, does not prove a full year of specialized experience. Monetary or time off award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old. *** Failure to submit the appropriate supporting documents will cause you to be ineligible for consideration of this position. - You will not be able to submit documents after the closing date of this announcement.***


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙