Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
26-OIG-IMP-12-TH
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 19, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently an employee of the Department of Commerce Office of Inspector General?
 Yes
 No
GS-1811-14
.
Using your own words and without help from Artificial Intelligence tools or consultants, please provide clear and original responses to the technical assessment questions below.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
1.
Are you an employee of the Department of Commerce, Office of Inspector General?
 Yes
 No
2.
The HQ-ASAC position will require you to transition from being primarily responsible for your own investigative work to being responsible for the performance, development and accountability of others. Describe how you would make that transition. How would you handle an experienced employee whose work product or performance does not meet your expectations? You must limit your response to 300 words.
3.
The Investigative Services Unit may simultaneously receive requests involving investigative support, database queries, referrals, policy matters, training requirements, administrative deadlines, mandatory reporting requirements, and urgent requests from senior leadership, the department, and congress. Describe how you would prioritize competing demands when everything appears important. What factors would drive your decisions? You must limit your response to 300 words.
4.
You recommend a particular course of action on a matter within your scope of abilities and work experience. After reviewing the course of action, the SAC or senior leadership decides to take a different approach. You believe your recommendation was better. How would you handle the disagreement, and what would you communicate to the employees you supervise? You must limit your response to 300 words.
5.
Assume you are selected as ASAC of HQ Operations. During your first several months, you identity an existing process that investigators routinely complain is inefficient, but the process has been in place for years and employees are accustomed to it. Walk through how you would determine whether the process should be changed and how you would implement a change while maintaining appropriate controls and accountability? You must limit your response to 300 words.
