Position Title
POWER PLANT ELECTRICIAN TRAINEE III/IV
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12974815-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the specialties you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one specialty.
 A. TRAINEE III
 B. TRAINEE IV


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Electrician Trainee III/IV position with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Electrician Trainee III/IV duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks in diagnosing, repairing, and maintaining power distribution circuits, control systems, communication systems, and high voltage heavy duty generating and distribution systems in a power producing plant. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks such as diagnosing, repairing, and maintaining power distribution circuits, control systems, communication systems, and low voltage distribution systems in an industrial setting. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks including electrical maintenance and repairs tasks. I have utilized tools of the trade and performed a variety of duties involving inspection, adjustment, maintenance, repair, or testing of electrical equipment. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common electrical maintenance and repairs tasks. I can perform basic electrical repair work; follow blueprints or instructions for common electrical maintenance tasks; and apply electronic principles to installation of electrical equipment. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple electrician tasks, or I have received training in this area.
 My training or experience is not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙