Position Title
SMALL ARMS REPAIRER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12914715-AR-26-073 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E7 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Unit Training Equipment Site
 AOC 2: NG employees in the DCSG4 (This includes Combined Support Maintenance Shop - West, Director of Logistics, State Surface Maintenance Office, FMS's 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 16, 17, 24, 27, 28, 29, and 33, and the Combined Support Maintenance Shop - East)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training reading and interpreting instructions, repair manual, specifications and drawings? Do you have knowledge of shop mathematics sufficient to use testing devices and measuring instruments; and be proficient in the use and maintenance of hand tools and equipment?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience or training to work effectively and efficiently on weapons and mechanical systems in disassembly for repair, inspection to diagnose mechanical malfunctioning, wear and/or damage is required? Experience in adjustment of levers, gear linkages and synchronization of interrelated mechanical systems. Experience in applying technical manuals, regulations, specifications and drawings to determine operation, assembly and a tolerance of the variety of weapons cleaned, repaired and modified, is required. Do you have experience using and maintaining a variety of hand and power tools and gauges is required; tools include drills, files, saws, hammers, vises and precision gauges and measuring instruments such as micrometers, optical comparators, ultrasonic checkers, magna-fluxing machines and/or borescopes to determine when parts are worn or damaged beyond acceptable tolerances?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙