Position Title
Hydrogeologist
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12955896-26-KV Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Arlington, TX


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE is defined as: experience that demonstrates ability to provide direction and manage organizational planning and analysis, as well as performance management, knowledge management and strategic workforce planning, and acquisition management.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your education and experience to perform duties in the 1301 Physical Science series.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience, or additional education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙