Position Title
Transportation Security Manager
Agency
Transportation Security Administration
Announcement Number
CAE-26-12989392-I Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Displaced Employee?  To be eligible you must meet one or more of the following:
A current (OR former) employee of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) who will be (OR has been) separated through TSA involuntary workforce reduction (IWR) procedures AND I am eligible to be considered for TSA positions for all areas of consideration, for up to one year after the effective date of my involuntary separation; 
A former TSA Transportation Security Officer (TSO) eligible for rehiring priority under the Priority Employment Program (PEP);
An applicant for a Transportation Security Officer (TSO) position who has had my enter-on-duty (EOD) date delayed or offer rescinded due to a workforce reduction or anticipated reduction eligible for priority consideration under the Priority Employment Program (PEP).
If you indicate eligibility for priority consideration and exemption from Area of Consideration restrictions, you must submit a copy of the official notification that supports the eligibility at the time of application.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA)?

As a current TSA employee, you are strongly encouraged to submit a copy of your most recent non-Award Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your status.

TSA employees who do not submit the SF-50 with their application must document their current TSA position in their resume and may be required to provide the SF-50 document during the selection process.  TSA employees may obtain a copy of their most recent non-Award SF-50 at https://eopf.opm.gov/dhs/.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Referred applicants may be shared with other locations within TSA. Do you authorize the sharing of your name and application materials with other locations? If you respond "No", your name and application materials may only be shared for the position and locations on this announcement.
 Yes
 No


How did you hear about this opportunity?
1.
Please let us know how you heard about this opportunity.
Airport ad
Billboard ad
Career center
Digital banner ad
Email
Facebook
Flyer
Gas station TV ad
Google search
Gym TV ad
Instagram
Job board (e.g. Indeed, ZipRecruiter, LinkedIn, etc.)
Job Fair
LinkedIn
Local TV ad
Magazine ad
News
Newspaper ad
Other streaming or online video ad
Professional organization (e.g. LULAC, NOBLE, SHRM, etc.)
Public transit ad
Radio ad
Referral
Shopping mall ad
Streaming radio ad
Text message
TSA postcard
Twitter
USAJOBS Search or E-mail
VA for VETs, TAP or other military/veteran program
YouTube video ad
None of the Above


Suitability and Conditions of Employment
1.
Please indicate whether or not you have been convicted* of any of the offenses listed within the past 10 years. (Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position.)

*You have a conviction if you plead no contest (nolo contendere), plead guilty, were found guilty, or found not guilty by reason of insanity, to any of the listed disqualifying offenses. The only exceptions are if your guilty plea or conviction has been reversed on appeal, your conviction has been expunged, or you have been pardoned.
Forgery of certificates, false marking of aircraft, and other aircraft registration violations.
Interference with air navigation.
Improper transportation of hazardous material.
Aircraft piracy.
Interference with flight crew members or flight attendants.
Commission of certain crimes aboard aircraft in flight.
Carrying a weapon or explosive aboard aircraft.
Conveying false information and threats.
Aircraft piracy outside the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States.
Lighting violation involving transporting controlled substances. Essentially, this means that if you have been convicted of transporting illegal drugs in a plane without activating the navigation or anti-collision lights you are disqualified.
Unlawful entry into an aircraft area that serves air carriers or foreign air carriers contrary to established security requirements.
Destruction of an aircraft or either a domestic or international aircraft facility. It is a federal crime to use any device, substance or weapon, to intentionally perform an act of violence against any person at an airport or to destroy or seriously damage the facilities of such an airport.
Murder.
Assault with intent to murder.
Espionage.
Sedition (inciting insurrection against lawful authority).
Kidnapping or hostage taking.
Treason.
Rape or aggravated sexual abuse.
Unlawful possession, use, sale, distribution, or manufacture of an explosive or weapon.
Extortion.
Armed or felony armed robbery.
Distribution of, or intent to distribute a controlled substance.
Felony arson.
Felony involving a threat.
Felony involving willful destruction of property.
Felony involving importation or manufacture of a controlled substance.
Felony involving burglary.
Felony involving theft.
Felony involving dishonesty, fraud, or misrepresentation.
Felony involving possession or distribution of stolen property.
Felony involving aggravated assault.
Felony involving bribery.
Felony involving illegal possession of a controlled substance punishable by a maximum term of imprisonment of more than 1 year, or any other crime classified as a felony that the Under Secretary determines indicates a propensity for placing contraband aboard an aircraft in return for money.
Violence at international airports.
Conspiracy or attempt to commit any of the criminal acts listed above.
Interference with security screening personnel.
 Yes, I have been convicted* of one or more of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.
 No, I have not been convicted* of any of the offenses listed above in the last ten (10) years.


All the information you provide may be verified by a review of the work experience and/or education as shown on your application form, by checking references and through other means, such as the interview process. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work.


2.
Does the TSA employ any of your relatives?
 Yes
 No


Please respond whether or not you have been separated (e.g., terminated, removed, or resigned while a proposed termination or removal was pending) from TSA for any of the following reasons within the last three years.

Note: By responding "Yes" to any of these, you will be removed from consideration for this position


3.
Were you separated due to unacceptable performance?
 Yes
 No


4.
Were you separated due to misconduct?
 Yes
 No


5.
Were you separated due to receiving a negative suitability determination from the Personnel Security Division?
 Yes
 No


6.
Did you resign after receiving a proposed removal letter?
 Yes
 No


Resume Requirements
1.

I understand that my Resume must include the following or I may be found ineligible for consideration:

Narrative description of duties for each job entry with start and end dates, including month and year (i.e. 8/2023 - 8/2024 or 8/2024 - present) for work experience.
Number of hours worked in a position (i.e., full-time or part-time) for each job entry. If part-time, state the total number of hours worked per week.
Performance level for federal civilian positions which include pay plan and grade/band (e.g. SV-G or GS-11) for each job entry.
Utilizing the USAJOBS Resume Builder and completing all available fields is strongly encouraged.
 Yes, I understand my resume must include the above information and I wish to continue with my application.
 I no longer want to continue with my application.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses at least one year of specialized experience at the SV-G or GS-11 in the Federal service or equivalent experience that includes: 1) Administering, coordinating, or supervising/managing programs or services that provide aviation security, corporate security, or force protection for personnel, equipment, and facilities.
 Yes
 No


As part of your application for the SV-1801-H position, you are required to provide examples of accomplishments that demonstrate your abilities in job-related competencies.

Please follow these steps:

1. Review Each Competency and Competency Definition: Read each question and competency definition carefully. Consider how your past experiences relate to each competency.

2. Choose Relevant Accomplishments: Select an accomplishment for each competency. This can be a specific example (such as a challenging assignment, a particular incident, or a completed project) or a broader example of consistent high performance in your daily work.

3. Describe Each Competency Accomplishment: For each competency, include the following information: Situation: Briefly describe the context or circumstances of what you achieved. Actions and Outcomes: Clearly explain what you did, your responsibilities, and the results or impact of your actions.

Additionally, your responses will be evaluated on how clearly, concisely, and professionally you write. When describing your accomplishment, provide only necessary details, factual information, and a complete, organized, and cohesive statement of the events.

Each competency accomplishment should not exceed 700 characters.

Refrain from including any protected, confidential, classified, and/or Sensitive Security Information (SSI), as well as any Personally Identifiable Information (PII), in all responses for this section. This includes your information as well as the information of all applicable parties, such as name(s), airport/location, security/checkpoint specifics, etc. For more details on what specific information is SSI, please find the relevant SSI ID guide on the SSI SharePoint page.

Moreover, the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools or assistance to write your accomplishments is strictly prohibited.


2.
Competency: Administration and Management
Administration and Management is defined as: Applies business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, and coordination of people and resources in support of organizational operations.

Demonstrate your competence in Administration and Management by providing an accomplishment in accordance with the instructions above:


3.
Competency: Incident Management
Incident Management is defined as: Applies skills used to address situations that threaten the integrity of operations and/or the safety and security of people and significant assets.

Demonstrate your competence in Incident Management by providing an accomplishment in accordance with the instructions above:


4.
Competency: Leadership
Leadership is defined as: Inspires, influences, and guides others toward goal accomplishments; coaches, mentors, and encourages others to maximize potential; models high standards of honesty, integrity, trust, openness, and respect for individuals by applying these values to daily behaviors.

Demonstrate your competence in Leadership by providing an accomplishment in accordance with the instructions above:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment with the TSA is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙