Position Title
Deputy Inspector General for Audit Services
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-ES-0511-26-12896730 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

• A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
• A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
• A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career Senior Executive Service (SES) member in the Federal Government, a graduate of an OPM approved SES Candidate Development Program (CDP), or an individual with SES reinstatement eligibility who meets the mandatory qualifications requirement?
Note:  If your response to this question is "yes", you must submit official documentation from your agency (i.e. SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action or OPM SES QRB Approval Certification)
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Federal civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?
 Yes
 No


5.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past five years?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this Department of Health and Human Services jOffice of Inspector General job opportunity?
 A. USA JOBS website
 B. Community Organization
 C. Employment Office
 D. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 E. Magazine
 F. Professional Organization
 G. Social Media (Linked-In, Facebook, Instagram, etc.)
 H. Other


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the ES-0511-00 position in the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General.  We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Choose the one answer that describes how you meet the qualification requirements for this Senior Executive Service (SES) position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this SES position because my 2-page resume reflects that I have one year of executive level experience in a managerial capacity and responsibility for providing executive leadership for a large audit organization responsible for promoting economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the administration of programs on a national level. (This experience aligns with the five mandatory Executive Core Qualifications, and the mandatory Technical Qualifications and is clearly identified in my resume).
 My experience does not match the choice above.


2.
To qualify for this position applicants must meet the positive education requirements for financial auditors. From the descriptions below, select the items that best describes your qualifications.


 I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.") OR I have at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. In addition, I have one of the following: (1) Twenty-four (24) semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to six (6) hours of business law; (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., fifteen (15) semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the twenty-four (24) semester-hour requirement, and I have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; or a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the four (4) year course of study described in paragraph A; or except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of twenty-four (24) semester hours in accounting, my education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements
 I do not possess the positive education requirements, or the combination of education described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙