Position Title
Training and Curriculum Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13047616-NE-BMM-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this GS-09position at our agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement/Individual Occupational Requirements for this Training and Curriculum Specialist GS-1701 series. You must provide unofficial transcripts as verification that you meet this education requirement by the closing date of this announcement.
 I have a degree that included or was supplemented by major study in education, child development, early childhood education, home economics (early childhood emphasis), elementary education, special education, or another subject-matter field appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience, meaning: courses equivalent to a major in education, or in a subject-matter field appropriate to the position, plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in A above.
 My experience / education does not match the choice above.


2.
GS-09 In addition to meeting the occupational requirements for this series, choose the answer that describes how you meet the additional requirements for this GS-1701-09 position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this GS-09 position, because my resume clearly demonstrates that I have one full year of minimum qualifying specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-07 level in the federal service. Examples of minimum qualifying specialized experience include the following types of tasks performed on a regular and recurring basis: Developing or delivering training or curriculum for child or youth programs; applying child development principles to support age-appropriate learning and activities; and providing guidance to staff or care providers on developmental or educational practices.
 I Possess 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field directly related to this position. NOTE: MUST SUBMIT A COPY OF YOUR TRANSCRIPTS
 I have a combination of completed graduate level education and specialized experience as described above that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. This will be calculated using your resume and unofficial transcripts or a list of courses/course hours submitted with your application. as described in the job opportunity announcement and education. (NOTE: Only graduate education in excess of the first year may be used to qualify for the GS-09 level.)
 My experience /education does not match the choice above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fired or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙