Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12998925-26-DMM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


3.
What is the highest grade you have held on a non-temporary basis in the federal service? If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


4.
What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


Assessment 1
To qualify for the GS-07, you must have one of the following: (1) Education: One full year of graduate level education or Superior academic achievement. Note: the work of the Program Analyst is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. (Must Provide Transcripts.) (2) Education and Experience: Combinations of successfully undergraduate education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements for the grade level, and may be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for the GS-07 grade level. (3) Specialized Experience: Under limited supervision, you must have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 level, that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and this experience is typically in or related to this position to be filled. This experience must be clearly identified in your resume. Specialized experience at this grade level will include but is not limited to: a. Knowledge of and skill in automated data processing applications, e.g., desktop publishing, graphics, etc., to be able to design, establish, and operate in the operation of state-of-the-art personal computer equipment and must possess a sound working knowledge of word processing, electronic spreadsheets, data base computer applications, etc., in order to produce and maintain a variety of required reports and documents. b. Knowledge of pertinent VHA directives, policies, guidelines, and procedures is required. Incumbent must possess the skills necessary to apply this knowledge to assist in the development of local policies and procedures as well as training programs for Medical Center staff. This position requires a comprehensive understanding of VHA medical benefits and a sound knowledge of the organization, structure (including service lines and departments), workload, funding, mission, and goals of the Department, the VISN and the Medical Center. The work involves the application of accepted principles method and guidelines of qualitative analysis, isolation problems and issues or resolving critical problems at the institutional level. c. Ability to use qualitative and/or quantitative methods to assess effectiveness and improvement of complex processes. Awareness and understanding of overall VHA, VISN, and Medical Center goals and objectives are critical to the successful accomplishment of the duties assigned to this position. d. Basic understanding of statistical (mathematical) principles and computer literacy to the degree that the incumbent is able to retrieve data and provide appropriate reports.


1.
Select your level of education and/or experience for the GS-07:

 I have one full year of graduate level education or Superior academic achievement that is directly related to the position. (NOTE: You MUST provide transcripts).
 I have a combination of graduate related education and experience that totals 100 percent as listed above. (NOTE: You MUST provide transcripts, and your experience MUST be documented in your resume).
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, as listed above, at the GS-05 that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position (NOTE: This experience must be clearly identified in your resume).
 I do not have the education and/or specialized experience for this position.


To qualify for the GS-09, you must have one of the following: (1) Education: A master's or equivalent degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. Note: the work of the Program Analyst is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. (2) Combining Education and Experience: Only related graduate education in excess of one year may be combined with specialized experience for this grade level. (3) Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 level, that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and this experience is typically in or related to this position to be filled. This experience must be clearly identified in your resume. Specialized experience at this grade level is more complex than the GS-07, which includes but is not limited to: a. Knowledge of and skill in automated data processing applications, e.g., desktop publishing, graphics, etc., to be able to design, establish, and operate in the operation of state-of-the-art personal computer equipment and must possess a sound working knowledge of word processing, electronic spreadsheets, data base computer applications, etc., in order to produce and maintain a variety of required reports and documents. b. A broad knowledge of pertinent VHA directives, policies, guidelines, and procedures is required. Incumbent must possess the skills necessary to apply this knowledge in the development of local policies and procedures as well as training programs for Medical Center staff. This position requires a comprehensive understanding of VHA medical benefits and a sound knowledge of the organization, structure (including service lines and departments), workload, funding, mission, and goals of the Department, the VISN and the Medical Center. The work involves the application of accepted principles method and guidelines of qualitative analysis, isolation problems and issues or resolving critical problems at the institutional level. c Utilizing qualitative and/or quantitative methods to assess effectiveness and improvement of complex processes. Awareness and understanding of overall VHA, VISN, and Medical Center goals and objectives are critical to the successful accomplishment of the duties assigned to this position. d. Knowledge of statistical (mathematical) principles and computer literacy to the degree that the incumbent is able to retrieve data and provide appropriate reports.


2.
Select your level of education and/or experience for the GS-09:

 I have master's or equivalent degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: the work of the Program Analyst is sufficiently technical or specialized, therefore, graduate education alone may not provide the knowledge, and/or skill to perform the work. Course work must be related and clearly provides applicants with the background of knowledge and skills necessary for successful job performance. You MUST provide transcripts)
 I have the combination of graduate level education in excess of the first year and the specialized experience that is related to the occupation and grade being filled (Note: You MUST provide transcripts, and your experience MUST be documented in your resume).
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 level, that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) listed above that are needed to successfully perform the duties of the position and this experience is typically in or related to this position to be filled. (NOTE: This experience must be clearly identified in your resume).
 I do not have the education and/or specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙