Position Title
COST ACCOUNTANT (Title 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
CT-12957826-AR-26-091 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Are you currently employed as an On Board Federal Employee (T5), Tenure 0, 1, 2, or 3, assigned to the USPFO within the CTNG with U.S. citizenship?
 Yes
 No


Condistions of Employment
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Are you currently a U.S. citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience.  Mark only one response.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a degree in Accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included - or - was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting? The 24 hours may include up to six hours of credit in business law.

-OR-

Do you possess a combination of education and experience? At least four years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The candidate's background must also include ONE of the following:

1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to six hours of business law;

2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination;

3. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing. For example, completed 15 semester hours however, the school course work does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour degree requirement as defined above in paragraph one (subject: Degree), provided that:

(a) The candidate successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field for example, valuation engineering or financial institution examining;

(b) A panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors determined that the candidate demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and advancement levels that are normally associated with successful completion of the four-year course of study degree, as described above in Paragraph One; and,

(c) Except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the candidate's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently on board Title 5 Excepted Service assigned to Series GS-0510? If so, you are considered eligible for merit promotions if you have the competencies and a minimum of one year experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level.
 Yes
 No


For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience.  Mark only one response. (Your resume and any other supporting documentation you wish to provide must clearly substantiate that you currently possess 24 months of Specialized Experience.)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you possess at least 24 months of accounting experiences and competencies that provided knowledge of principles and procedures? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating an excellent understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the accounting business program requirements? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience and training that demonstrate the ability to conduct accounting business in accordance with directives and policies; the ability to study and evaluate the existing internal control systems to determine the level of reliability; and, the skills to determine the appropriate procedures needed to validate system reliability? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating the ability to obtain sufficient reliable evidence through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmation to provide a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the activity under examination? Do you possess at least 24 months of GS-0510 accounting experiences that used statistical and/or judgmental sampling of financial records and management controls to determine the degree of efficiency, economy, and effectiveness in which the activities discharged their financial responsibilities, and/or to determine that the financial records were maintained in accordance with applicable regulations? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience and education demonstrating your ability to follow directions, to read, retain, and understand a variety of instructions, regulations, policies and procedures?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess at least 24 months of accounting experiences and competencies that provided knowledge of principles and procedures?


5.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating an excellent understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the accounting business program requirements?


6.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience and training that demonstrate the ability to conduct accounting business in accordance with directives and policies; the ability to study and evaluate the existing internal control systems to determine the level of reliability; and, the skills to determine the appropriate procedures needed to validate system reliability?


7.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating the ability to obtain sufficient reliable evidence through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmation to provide a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the activity under examination?


8.
Do you possess at least 24 months of GS-0510 accounting experiences that used statistical and/or judgmental sampling of financial records and management controls to determine the degree of efficiency, economy, and effectiveness in which the activities discharged their financial responsibilities, and/or to determine that the financial records were maintained in accordance with applicable regulations?


9.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience and education demonstrating your ability to follow directions, to read, retain, and understand a variety of instructions, regulations, policies and procedures?


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all of the information on the questionnaire and documents attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.  I understand that false or fraudulent information on the questionnaire and documents attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.   I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


11.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



12.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


13.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


14.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


15.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙