Position Title
Supervisory Physical Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12935435-26-BP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to May 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Physical Therapist position. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current employment, level of education/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, please note that your experience and education are subject to verification.


1.
Basic Requirements - Education: The Educational Requirements for employment as a VHA Physical Therapist are prescribed by Public Law 96-151 codified in 38 U.S.C. 7402. To meet this requirement, you must have obtained one of the requirements below:

1) Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a Physical Therapist;

OR

2) Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a Physical Therapist;

OR

3) Doctorate degree in Physical Therapy. Please be sure to provide transcripts with your application.

NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE) accredited college or university. The CAPTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education (USDE) and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) to accredit entry-level physical therapy programs. Verification of accredited programs may be obtained from the American Physical Therapy Association (APTA) at www.apta.org.

Are you a graduate of a foreign physical therapy program? *Note: Graduates of foreign physical therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a full unrestricted and current license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The Foreign Credentialing Commission on Physical Therapy (FCCPT) is a non-profit organization created to assist the United States (U.S.) Citizenship and Immigration Services (formerly INS) and U.S. state licensing authorities by evaluating the credentials of Foreign Educated Physical Therapists (FEPTs) who wish to immigrate and work in the U.S.

Do you meet the Educational requirement for this position?

 Yes - I have obtained a Bachelor's degree in Physical Therapy AND five (5) years of progressively independent experience as a physical therapist.
 Yes - I have obtained a Master's degree in Physical Therapy AND two (2) years of progressively independent experience as a Physical Therapist.
 Yes - I have obtained a Doctorate degree in Physical Therapy.
 Yes - I am a graduate of foreign education as described.
 No - I have not obtained any of the Physical Therapist degrees mentioned above.


2.
Please list information about your education including name of school, type of degree, graduation date, award received.



3.
Licensure: Individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice Physical Therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.

Do you meet the Basic Licensure requirement for this position?
 Individuals who have or have had multiple licenses and had any such license revoked for professional misconduct, professional incompetency, or substandard care, or who surrendered such license after receiving written notice of potential termination of such license by the state for professional misconduct, professional incompetence, or substandard care, are not eligible for appointment to the position unless such revoked or surrendered license is fully restored (38 U.S.C 7402(f)). Effective November 30, 1999, this is a requirement for employment. This requirement does not apply to licensed physical therapists on VA rolls as of November 30, 1999, provided the individual maintains a continuous appointment and is not disqualified for employment by any subsequent revocations or voluntary surrenders of State license, registration, or certification. Loss of Credential. A PT who fails to maintain the required license must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment. At the discretion of the appointing official, an employee may be reassigned to another occupation, if qualified, and if a placement opportunity exists.
 Yes, I possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice physical therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.
 No, I do not possess a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice Physical Therapy in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia.


4.
Please use the narrative box to list basic information about your license including type, location, and whether or not it is active.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-13 Grade Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements you must have one (1) year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. Examples of these duties include; perform complex examinations and treatment of patients representing a wide scope of ages, as well as offering diagnoses, and rendering varied modalities inherent in their profession. Demonstrates knowledge of the changes associated with the aging/disease processes as well as the ability to assess the patient's status to interpret the appropriate information needed to identify each patient's requirements relative to his/her age-related, physical, psychosocial and cultural needs inclusive of recognized the need to include caregivers into the individualized treatment programs. Apply advanced treatment methodologies and treatment theories in the provision of care to a vast array of functional impairments and patients, as well as provide clinical practice guidance for other staff physical/occupational therapists. Communicates with, consults, and works cooperatively with other medical, surgical and rehabilitation disciplines, to provide comprehensive patient care.

Do you meet the grade requirements of this position?
 Yes
 No


6.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition meeting the experience above, you must demonstrate that you meet all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of contemporary physical therapy across multiple areas of practice, and the demonstrated ability to apply this knowledge to provide clinical guidance to Staff PTs within the department.
Knowledge of human resources administration, including such functions as the ability to interview and select qualified applicants, monitor and evaluate performance, and maintain effective labor management relations within scope of responsibility.
Ability to effectively supervise, direct, and manage a diverse physical therapy staff.
Skill in forging positive interpersonal relationships and conflict resolution.
Ability to analyze clinically appropriate data effectively to optimize quality, performance, and productivity within the section.
Ability to set priorities, delegate tasks, and solve problems in order to meet multiple deadlines and identify/address organizational problems.
Ability to manage advocacy roles and planning activities within the VA and the greater rehabilitation community.

Do you meet the KSA's listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙