Position Title
Senior Advisor
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12916728 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-14: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:

- Liaising with representatives of the regulated financial community as well as federal, state, or foreign government officials, including senior officials; AND
- Experience with U.S. economic sanctions and embargo programs including relevant sections of the Code of Federal Regulations, Executive Orders, and sanctions legislation; AND
- Experience with banking operations, correspondent banking, and interdiction software as well as strategies and methods for complying with U.S. sanctions in the regulated financial community; AND
- Applying regulations or related laws concerning economic sanctions to provide practical guidance; AND
- Experience with Structured Query Language (SQL), Extensible Markup Language (XML), Excel, database management, complex data analysis, and project management.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
For the GS-14, do you meet the specialized experience at the GS-13 level as described?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please indicate in which position(s)/location in your resume this information can be found.


3.
From the list below, please select the U.S. sanctions compliance functions with which you have experience performing:
 A. Evaluating financial transactions to determine the applicability of U.S. sanctions regulations.
 B. Monitoring suspicious activities and reviewing corporate and banking records/transactions to determine the applicability of U.S. sanctions regulations.
 C. Preparing reports of examination findings and memoranda to supervisors and management.
 D. Liaising with representatives of the banking and commercial communities to benefit examination processes.
 E. Coordinating with officials in government agencies to establish better communication and relationships.
 F. None of the above.


4.
. Please select all of the following in which you have demonstrated knowledge and experience of the BSA(Bank Secrecy Act)/AML(Anti-Money Laundering)/OFAC(Office of Foreign Assets Control) examination procedures:
 A. Federal Reserve Board of Governors
 B. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 C. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 D. National Credit Union Administration
 E. State and U.S. territory banking regulators
 F. Securities and Exchange Commission
 G. Other Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
 H. None of the above


5.
From the choices below, please select areas in which you have demonstrated subject matter experience:
 A. International trade and financial transactions
 B. OFAC related sanctions regulations, laws, and Executive Orders
 C. United Nations Security Council Resolutions
 D. Foreign policy and national security consideration surrounding sanctions programs
 E. Corporate operations to conduct reviews for compliance with OFAC regulations
 F. None of the above


6.
Which of the following best describes your demonstrated experience with U.S. Government regulations that implement economic sanctions and embargo programs?
 I have comprehensive demonstrated experience with U.S. Government regulations that implement economic sanctions and embargo programs.
 I have some experience of U.S. Government regulations that implement economic sanctions and embargo programs.
 I have limited experience of U.S. Government regulations that implement economic sanctions and embargo programs.
 I have none of the previously described areas experience.


7.
Select the statement(s) that describe the program management activities you have performed as a regular, recurring part of your job.
 A. Served as a spokesperson for the organization on program or project issues to a variety of stakeholder groups and federal, state and local agencies.
 B. Served as a spokesperson for the organization on program or project issues to the media.
 C. Developed and issued guidance or policy statements on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues for the organization.
 D. Served and/or facilitated on panels, committees or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 E. Provided guidance to other agency representatives or private industry on technical, programmatic, or professional issues that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 F. Facilitated workshops or partnering sessions between organizational entities.
 G. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal group setting.
 H. Built and fostered relationships with external customers, partners, stakeholders that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 I. Presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals and needs with other organizational entities.
 J. Presented briefings and formal presentations to senior management of external entities on policy, program, organizational, or project issues.
 K. Prepared written reports on organizational program/project status.
 L. Facilitated solutions on controversial issues affecting the scope of programs or projects with the public.
 M. Organized and conducted public meetings.
 N. None of the above.


8.
Which of the following best describes your substantive experience in providing guidance to financial professionals about U.S. sanctions and embargo regulations?
 I independently and routinely provide guidance for financial professionals about U.S. sanctions and embargo regulations.
 I provide guidance to financial professionals about other topics relevant to sanctions compliance with assistance from a supervisor.
 I have none of the previously described areas of skill/knowledge.


9.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience in interpreting and providing guidance on U.S. Government regulations that implement economic sanctions and embargo programs and anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regulations to the financial industry?
 I have experience reading and interpreting Treasury's OFAC programs for the purpose of providing guidance on complex trade documents and payment mechanisms to the international financial community.
 I have experience reading and interpreting Treasury's OFAC programs for the purpose of providing guidance to U.S. financial institutions.
 I have experience reading and interpreting Treasury's OFAC programs for the purpose of providing guidance to U.S. financial institutions with the assistance of senior staff.
 I have none of the previously described areas of experience.


10.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience in interpreting and providing guidance on U.S. Government regulations that implement economic sanctions and embargo programs and anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regulations to the financial industry?
 I have experience reading and interpreting Treasury's OFAC programs for the purpose of providing guidance on complex trade documents and payment mechanisms to the international financial community.
 I have experience reading and interpreting Treasury's OFAC programs for the purpose of providing guidance to U.S. financial institutions.
 I have experience reading and interpreting Treasury's OFAC programs for the purpose of providing guidance to U.S. financial institutions with the assistance of senior staff
 I have none of the previously described areas of experience.


11.
Which of the following best reflects your experience analyzing issues and identifying appropriate and/or innovative solutions?
 I have analyzed issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision.
 I have assisted others in the analysis of issues and identification of appropriate solutions.
 I have participated on a team that analyzed issues and identified appropriate solutions.
 I have independently analyzed issues and identified appropriate solutions.
 I have led others charged with the analysis of issues and identification of appropriate solutions.
 I have no work experience analyzing issues and identifying appropriate solutions.


12.
Please select the answer which best reflects your knowledge of relational databases such as PostgreSQL.
 I have no knowledge of these technologies.
 I have had education or training on these technologies, but have not yet used them on the job.
 I have working knowledge of these technologies and have used them to create or modify web applications.
 I have extensive knowledge of these technologies and use them on a regular basis to create and deploy web applications.


13.
From the list below, select the statement(s) that describe(s) the tasks you have independently completed as part of data analysis.
 A. Analyzing written reports to identify data trends
 B. Analyzing data tables
 C. Writing reports to present results of data analysis
 D. Reviewing reports for data abnormalities
 E. Reviewing data tables to ensure accuracy
 F. Reviewing charts to ensure accuracy
 G. Collecting data samples for analysis
 H. Transforming data for analysis
 I. Researching data analysis topics or techniques
 J. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
. Do you have experience conducting analyses with mathematical and scientific tools (such as R, SQL, Python, SAS, Tableau, PowerBI, Excel, or similar) to enable data-driven decision making?
 Yes
 No


15.
Please select all of the following outreach functions and activities that you have demonstrated experience.
 A. Writing articles
 B. Giving speeches
 C. Participating in industry dialogue
 D. Coordinating with other government agencies
 E. Conducting training presentations
 F. None of the above


16.
Which of the following best describes your experience in briefing and interacting with government officials and/or industry representatives?
 I have experience briefing and interacting with both government officials and industry representatives on issues relevant to the Department of the Treasury.
 I have experience briefing and interacting with either government officials or industry representatives.
 I have none of the previously described areas of skill/knowledge.


17.
Which of the following best describes your experience?
 I have minimal experience delivering oral presentations of recommendations to persuade others of the impact on proposals and reconciling conflicting interests.
 I have regularly delivered oral presentations of recommendations to persuade others of the impact on proposals and reconciling conflicting interests, independently and without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 I have constant experience supervising and assisting with the performance of delivering oral presentations of recommendations to persuade others of the impact on proposals and reconciling conflicting interest.
 None of the above


18.
Which best describes your experience briefing and verbally communicating with high-level government officials and/or industry representatives on financial issues regarding U.S. economic sanctions and embargo programs, anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regulations?
 I have delivered technical presentations to executives, management officials, and professional groups on these topics.
 I have delivered formal technical presentations to executives and professional groups on these topics.
 I have delivered formal presentations to managers and employees on these topics.
 I have delivered technical information to work groups.
 I do not have experience delivering technical information.


19.
. I have written a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well organized products on issues related to economic sanctions and export controls programs in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: legal briefs or memoranda; disclosures to administrative agencies; decision memoranda, regarding complex legal, regulatory, and/or public policy issues; research analyses, briefing papers, and/or options analyses regarding the law or regulations; evaluation of legislative proposals; and/or articles covering a complex legal, regulatory, and/or public policy issue for a major national or trade publication.
 As a principal job responsibility, wrote a variety of authoritative analytical products: applying legal authorities, regulations, and policy to specific facts, assessing complex legal and public policy issues of national and/or international significance to advise senior decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to national security, economic sanctions, export controls or international trade, and international regulatory matters and included the full range of products described above.
 Routinely wrote a variety of analytical products: applying specific facts to legal authorities, regulations, and policy to specific facts, assessing complex legal and public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to national security, economic sanctions, export controls or international trade, and international regulatory matters and included most of the products described above.
 Frequently wrote a variety of analytical products: applying legal authorities, regulations, and policy to specific facts, assessing complex legal and public policy issues related to national security, economic sanctions, export controls or international trade, and international regulatory matters for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products included at least three of the examples described above.
 None of the above


20.
. Choose the statement below that best describes your experience influencing others while building consensus.
 When building support for my ideas, I routinely seek input from my affected employees or colleagues, to give them a sense of ownership in the decision-making process and thereby have them more willing to accept my opinion.
 When influencing others to adopt my ideas, I encourage candid, professional discussion to flesh out the idea and uncover potential risks or improvements.
 As a supervisor or team member, I am often asked to make decisions. Delaying decisions, in order to build consensus, is a sign of weakness.
 I have no experience in this area.


21.
Choose all examples that match your experience in preparing written material.
 A. I have written analytical products for internal audiences.
 B. I have written analytical products for external audiences.
 C. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad internal audience.
 D. I have written briefing material on policies and procedures for a broad external audience.
 E. I have written to defend a position and persuade a skeptical audience.
 F. I have prepared and presented issue papers and/or briefings to program personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels.
 G. I have reviewed and edited products for accuracy, grammar, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 H. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙