Position Title
Advanced Practice Nurse (Cardiothoracic Surgery Nurse Practitioner)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12950955-26-DI Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration.

SPF for this position: You must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken Spanish?
 Yes. I am proficient in written and spoken Spanish.
 No. I am not proficient in written and spoken Spanish and I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position in Puerto Rico.


Assessment 1
In order to qualify for this position as an Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioner) (APN (NP)), you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of education, training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Applicants that meet the education requirement but do not possess the required license and/or certification yet may be hired at the entry step Nurse II a Graduate Nurse Technician - Nurse Practitioner on a temporary appointment up to any period not-to-exceed one year and a day while actively pursuing licensure and/or certification.

NOTE: Grandfathering Provision - All persons currently employed in VHA in 0610 series and an APN (NP) assignment that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the standard (1/29/2024) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification.


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education. All Advanced Practice Nurse (Nurse Practitioners) must possess a post-master's certificate or master's or doctoral degree as a Nurse Practitioner. Must be a graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant:
The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN), 3343 Peachtree Road NE, Suite 850, Atlanta, GA 30326. The ACEN accredits all levels of nursing programs, including clinical doctorate, masters/post-master's certificate, baccalaureate, associate and diploma nursing education programs. (NOTE: The National League for Nursing Accrediting Commission/NLNAC changed its name to ACEN in May 2013 ACEN's website may be utilized to verify accredited programs using automated inquiry processes; however, for verification of any nursing program's accreditation prior to 1998, an automated inquiry cannot be used and ACEN must be contacted directly via their email contact information on the ACEN website to verify.); or
The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), 655 K Street, NW, Suite 7, Washington, DC 20001. The CCNE is an accrediting arm of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) and accredits nursing education programs at the bachelor and master's level;
Foreign Education. Graduates of foreign schools of professional nursing programs, the nurse practitioner degree equivalency must be validated through an Agency recognized degree equivalency evaluation agency, such as the International Consultants of Delaware (ICD). Candidates with equivalent Nurse Practitioner masters or doctorate level degrees who possess current, full, active and unrestricted registration and certification will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of professional nursing to warrant appointment.

Do you meet the requirements noted above?
 Yes, I meet the education requirement or am a current VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No, I am pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.
 I do not possess either of the education requirements listed above.


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your APN (NP) education.

Name of Academic Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education (post-master's certificate, master's, MSN, doctoral, etc.):
Month and Year conferred:


3.
License. You must possess and maintain an active, current, full and unrestricted APN license to practice as a NP in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. You must provide a copy of your license with your application.

Exception to Licensure for Graduate Nurse Technicians.
(a) Candidates who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required licensure and/or certification, may be appointed at the entry step of the Nurse II, as a Graduate Nurse Technician Nurse Practitioner (GNT-NP) on a temporary appointment up to any period not-to-exceed one year and a day under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).
(b) GNT-NP must take the national certification examination at the earliest scheduled date following the date of their temporary appointment.
(c) GNT-NP must actively pursue and obtain required licensure and certification within a year and a day and sign a statement of understanding.
d) Failure to achieve licensure and certification within this period will result in separation from service with two-week's notice.

Do you possess an active, current, full, and unrestricted NP license as listed above?
 Yes. I meet the licensure requirement or am a current VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision AND I have provided a copy of my NP license with this application.
 No, however, I meet the exception listed above as a GNT-NP.
 No. I do not possess the required NP license, and I am not in the process of obtaining it.


3a.
Provide the following information regarding your APN (NP) licensure. If you are not licensed yet, indicate the expected date.

Name on License/Certification:
License issuing state or territory:
Complete License number:
License expiration date:


4.
Basic Certification: All APNs (NPs) must maintain full and current board certification in an area of clinical specialty.
 
(a) All APNs (NPs) must maintain full and current board certification in an area of clinical specialty from one of the following: i The American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC); ii The American Academy of Nurse Practitioners Certification Board (AANPCB); or iii Other nationally recognized certifying body in the area in which the Nurse Practitioner is academically prepared.
b) The required basic certification as a Nurse Practitioner must be identified in support of any position being established or filled as an APN (NP). An approved list of NP/APN certifications may be found on the Office of Nursing site at the Office of Nursing Services.
(c) Basic certification as a nurse practitioner is a condition of employment and qualifying factor for the specific assignment.
(d) APNs (NPs) are credentialed and privileged to provide care based upon scope of practice, formal graduate nursing educational preparation, certification and patient population. It is the focus of care based on patient care needs, not the care setting, that defines the provider's scope of practice and basic certification required. The scope of practice is determined by the provider's formal academic education and basic Nurse Practitioner certification. The assignment will either require a specific basic certification as a nurse practitioner, i.e., Mental Health, Women's Health, etc., or may allow for more than one basic nurse practitioner certification.
(e) The APNs (NPs) may also hold a specialty certification which in many cases is not specific to a Nurse Practitioner role. Specialty certifications may be highly recommended but are not required as a condition of employment or required for an assignment and do not support the basic board certification nurse practitioner requirement.

Exception: Applicants who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required board certification, may be appointed, pending certification, as a Graduate Nurse Technician Nurse Practitioner (GNT-NP) on a temporary appointment up to one year and a day.

Do you possess a full and current board certification as a Nurse Practitioner (NP) in at least one of the specialty area(s) listed above?
 Yes, I meet the basic certification requirement or am a current VHA APN (NP) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No, I am pending APN (NP) board certification
 No, I do not meet any of the Basic Certification requirements


4a.
Provide the following information regarding your NP board certification: Name of the certification certifying body, specialty and expiration date.

Name of the certification/certifying body:
Specialty:
Certification Number:
Expiration date.


The following Scope, Education and Dimension criteria must be met in determining the grade assignment of candidates, and if appropriate, the level within a grade. Applicants pending completion of the degree requirements that meet the other grade-level requirements should select "Yes" as they maybe tentatively selected but may not be hired until their degree is conferred.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
APN (NP) II Requirements - Do you meet the following?
Scope: Demonstrates leadership in delivering and improving holistic care through collaborative strategies with others.
Education and Experience Requirement: Meets basic education requirement for APN (NP). Nurse II is considered the entry grade level for APN (NPs); no experience is required.
Dimension Requirements:
Clinical Practice. Delivers evidence-based health care, demonstrating proficiency in the ability to manage a patient panel, population, or program.
Outcome Focus. Utilizes research and evidence-based practice to evaluate the patient care delivery system within a patient panel or program, presents findings and contributes to changes that enhance the quality and timeliness of veteran/patient care.
Leadership. Works effectively as a leader within a team/unit/group and seeks interdisciplinary collaboration as appropriate to enhance patient care.
Professional Development. Acquires knowledge and skills to develop expertise in area of practice.
Professionalism/Collegiality. Demonstrates effective communication skills and professional behavior, promoting cooperation and teamwork. Participates in interdisciplinary teams and processes that positively impact patient outcomes.
 Yes
 No


6.
APN (NP) III Requirements- Do you meet the following?
Scope: Executes position responsibilities that demonstrate leadership, experience, and creative approaches to management of complex client care.
Education and Experience Requirement: Meets basic education requirement for an APN (NP) AND one year of specialized APN (NP) experience equivalent to the Nurse II grade level.
Dimension Requirements:
Clinical Practice. Influences and models the delivery of evidence- based health care, demonstrating expertise in the ability to manage a patient panel, population, or program.
Outcome Focus. Leads and implements changes that enhance the quality and timeliness of Veteran/patient care applying research and evidence in the delivery of healthcare for patient populations.
Leadership. Initiates and leads interdisciplinary teams informed by structured approaches and processes to improve outcomes that positively impact care for a patient panel, population, or program.
Professional Development. Acquires knowledge and skills, then disseminates acquired information within and/or outside the medical facility.
Professionalism/Collegiality. Initiates and leads interdisciplinary teams developing systems that positively impact outcomes at the panel, population, or program level. Demonstrates effective communication skills and professional behavior, promoting cooperation and teamwork.
 Yes
 No


7.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF). This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration. Evidence of the SPF must be reflected in your resume.

The SPF for this position is: In addition to the English Language Proficiency, you must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken Spanish?
 A. Yes
 B. No


RESUME/CV REMINDER - Your resume/CV must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title; Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position); Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); and Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



DOCUMENT REMINDER- Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit a SF-50 (if you are a current VA/Federal employee), copy of all educational transcriptions, proof of completed training, copy of NP license, copy of NP board certification(s) and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, licenses/certifications, transcript(s), etc. may make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). To obtain your SF-50s, VA employees may access your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) by going to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/. All other Federal employees must contact your serving HR Office for assistance assessing your eOPF. It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙