Position Title
Supervisory Consumer Safety Officer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS IATC-26-12941197-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Long Beach, CA
 B. Saint Petersburg, FL
 C. Silver Spring, MD
 D. Gloucester, MA
 E. Seattle, WA


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Consumer Safety Series, 0696 because I have:

 A bachelor’s or graduate/higher level degree in quality assurance or a related degree that included at least 30 semester hours in one or a combination of the following: consumer laws, biological sciences, food science, chemistry, pharmacy, physical sciences, food technology, nutrition, medical science, engineering, epidemiology, veterinary medical science, legal investigations, law enforcement, or related scientific fields that provided knowledge directly related to consumer safety officer work. The 30 semester hours may include up to 8 semester hours in statistics, or course work that included the principles, theory, or practical application of computers or computer programming.
 I have a combination of education and experience--courses consisting of at least 30 semester hours in the fields of study described in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Consumer Safety Series, 0696.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Supervisory Consumer Safety Officer, ZP-0696-5 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-15) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-4) or GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Implementing programs related to seafood production, seafood trade, food quality, or food safety; Leading teams as a supervisor or program manager; and Monitoring execution of a program to meet organizational priorities.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Under the Agricultural Marketing Act, what is the primary distinction between the Seafood Inspection Program's services and the FDA's regulatory oversight?

 SIP provides mandatory safety inspections, while FDA provides voluntary grading.
 SIP offers voluntary, fee-for-service inspection and grading, while FDA enforces mandatory safety regulations.
 SIP is responsible for domestic wild-catch only, while FDA handles imports.
 There is no distinction; SIP and FDA share identical enforcement authorities.


2.
A "Corrective Action" under a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) system must be taken whenever:

 A consumer files a complaint.
 There is a deviation from a Critical Limit.
 An inspector arrives for an unannounced visit.
 The facility changes its equipment supplier.


3.
If you were asked to analyze another country's safety standard as being "unscientific," which international body provides the primary science-based standards for seafood safety that you would reference?

 The World Bank
 Codex Alimentarius (Food Code)
 The International Maritime Organization
 The Food and Agriculture Organization


4.
A new "Pathogen of Concern" emerges in the seafood supply chain. What is your first step as a manager to ensure your field staff is prepared?

 Order them to stop all inspections until a new law is passed.
 Issue a "Technical Directive" or "Policy Memo" outlining the hazard and the updated inspection procedures.
 Ask the inspectors to do their own research on the internet.
 Wait for the industry to tell you how they want to be inspected.


5.
In the context of international trade, a "Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) Agreement" ensures that seafood export requirements are:

 Based on political trade alliances.
 Applied only to frozen products.
 Based on scientific principles and risk assessment.
 Consistent across all food commodities regardless of risk.


6.
The Seafood Inspection Program is a "Fee-for-Service" program. What is the primary financial management goal for such a program?

 It must generate a profit for the federal government.
 It must minimize costs to customers, including through annual Congressional appropriations.
 It must ensure the full cost recovery of the program as nearly as possible, with fees covering the total cost of providing the service.
 It can only be used for the salaries of field inspectors, not overhead.


7.
Which of the following is most relevant to advancing U.S. "seafood competitiveness" in U.S. seafood trade policy?

 Ensuring that all U.S. fishing vessels are exactly the same size.
 Requiring that imported seafood meet environmental and labor standards comparable to those mandated for domestic producers and that U.S. exporters do not face unjustifiable barriers to trade.
 Providing federal subsidies to ensure domestic fish is always cheaper than imported fish.
 Eliminating all tariffs for countries with the largest aquaculture sectors.


8.
Which of the following is most frequently used as a "Non-Tariff Barrier" (NTB) by importing nations to restrict market access for U.S. seafood exports?

 Outright bans on all North American species.
 Complex and inconsistent sanitary/phytosanitary (SPS) requirements or health certificate language.
 Requirements that all fish be transported via solar-powered ships.
 Mandatory inclusion of U.S. recipes on all export packaging.


9.
If a Division Chief in charge of the Seafood Inspection Program is tasked with "Export Promotion," which of the following activities is likely to be most relevant?

 Subsidizing the cost of bait for domestic fishermen.
 Negotiating with foreign "Competent Authorities" to standardize health certificates and reduce border detentions.
 Creating a domestic-only advertising campaign.
 Reducing the number of safety inspections for exported products.


10.
When considering how to communicate a complex seafood safety risk to the general public, a Division Chief's primary goal should be to:

 Provide highly technical formulas so the public can calculate their own risk.
 Provide clear, actionable advice that balances the nutritional benefits of seafood with the identified risks and recommend appropriate messaging through agency leadership.
 Downplay the risk to avoid hurting industry sales.
 Tell the public to stop eating all seafood until further notice.


11.
As Division Chief, you are informed of a "Critical Limit" deviation at a major facility. What is your primary responsibility in overseeing the facility's response?

 To personally rewrite the facility's HACCP plan.
 A corrective action plan is put in place and the facility has identified, segregated, and evaluated the affected product for safety before it enters commerce where appropriate.
 To immediately issue a press release naming the company.
 To waive the requirement if the company is a long-term partner.


12.
A Division Chief anticipates a significant "Workforce Gap" due to upcoming retirements. What is the most effective long-term HR strategy to address this?

 Implementing a formal succession plan that includes cross-training and mentorship for "High Potential" employees, and seeking approval to hire positions consistent with a staffing plan.
 Outsourcing all inspection duties to private third-party contractors.
 Increasing the starting salary for new hires above the GS-level cap.
 Freezing all promotions to save costs for future recruitment.


13.
What should the first step be when a subordinate's performance falls to an "Unacceptable" level?

 Immediate termination of employment.
 Placement on a “Performance Improvement Plan” (PIP) or an equivalent action with a defined opportunity to demonstrate improvement.
 Reassigning the employee to a different division without notice.
 Reducing the employee’s pay grade (Demotion) as a first warning.


14.
When leading a geographically dispersed team of field inspectors, which leadership communication strategy best minimizes "siloing" and inconsistent policy application?

 Communicating guidance clearly and in writing through regional supervisors to maintain a chain of command, while hosting regular "All-Hands" virtual meetings to widen communication.
 Ensuring all decisions are made directly by the Division Chief on an individual basis.
 Allowing each regional office to create its own independent Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).
 Using personal email accounts to send out urgent policy updates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


15.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙