Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYST (Title 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12534950-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Tuesday, December 9, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Financial Management Analyst, GS-0501-11 position.
 I possess at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level (GS-09) showing extensive knowledge of military pay and allowances, civilian pay and allowances, vendor payments, and travel entitlements. A detailed grasp of governing regulations and a thorough understanding of pertinent laws, regulations, and other technical criteria in order to determine propriety of entitlements and pay. AND Detailed knowledge of related financial regulations and rulings covering diverse types of pay transactions to typically function as a technical authority for the resolution of an extensive range of issues or problems. AND Knowledge of the overall DFAS mission and functions, operation, and relationships to other agencies to respond to special inquiries and task organizations for information and responses. AND Detailed knowledge of multiple financial and accounting systems in order to perform studies related to management improvement, productivity improvement and management controls to analyze and evaluate criteria for the enhancement of all assigned Pay programs (Military Pay, Civilian Pay, Accounts Payable, and Travel Pay). AND Ability to apply fact-finding and investigative techniques to perform studies and analysis of data and the ability to research and analyze directive and regulations to assess their impact on current and planned operational initiatives. AND Knowledge of automated financial systems to participate in a variety of required operations audits and analytical reviews related to pay entitlement determinations. Specific knowledge of Microsoft (MS) Office suites of Access and Excel. AND Knowledge of and ability to gather, assemble, analyze and prepare both short and long term strategy for presenting, explaining, and documenting budget requests and justifying to management officials. AND Skill in preparing reports and in organizing and delivering briefings to managers, and wing leadership to encourage understanding and acceptance of findings and recommendations. AND Extensive knowledge of military pay and allowances, civilian pay and allowances, vendor payments, and travel entitlements. AND A detailed grasp of governing regulations and a thorough understanding of pertinent laws, regulations, and other technical criteria in order to determine propriety of entitlements and pay. AND Detailed knowledge of related financial regulations and rulings covering diverse types of pay transactions to typically function as a technical authority for the resolution of an extensive range of issues or problems. AND Must possess high level of communication skills, show ability to convey thoughts and ideas both orally and in writing, and present a positive, professional image. AND Must be able to deal with sensitive issues involving Airmen, Civilians and Vendors. Must possess level of analytical skills to determine root cause of problems and recommend solutions to said problems. AND Skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately. AND Skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material. AND Skill in presenting formal training presentations and briefings. AND Ability to prepare reports and presentation formats.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. To qualify, the applicant must have a completed undergraduate or graduate education, the college degree education must be in one of, or be a combination of the following required disciplines: accounting, business, finance, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organizational management.
 I possess a combination of successfully completed post-high school education and experience that may be used to meet total qualification requirements. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-11.
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements listed above.


2.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component or a prior member eligible to become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian and not a current member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am a civilian unwilling and ineligible to obtain membership into the Texas Air National Guard


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary compatible AFSC? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

Compatible AFSC: 6F0X1
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an E-5(SSgt) not to exceed E-7(MSgt)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the rank of E-5(SSgt) not to exceed E-7(MSgt). Civilians without prior service should respond "No".
 Yes, I am an E-5(SSgt) not to exceed an E-7(MSgt).
 No, I am not a E-5(SSgt) not to exceed an E-7(MSgt).
 I do not possess one of the above listed ranks, AND I am unwilling and ineligible immediately eligible to join the Texas Air National Guard within the above listed ranks.


5.
Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 I have a Secret security clearance.
 I am eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment and understand that I must submit to a background investigation in order to acquire this security clearance.
 I am either not eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment due to knowledge that I would not pass a background investigation, or I am not willing to submit for a background investigation and understand that this will remove me from consideration for this vacancy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


8.
Members of the financial management workforce are required to participate in the Financial Management Certification Program Members of the financial management workforce must achieve the appropriate certification level for their positions within 2 years of notification of applicable certification requirements or the period of any extension. Do you agree to this condition of employment?

 Yes
 No


9.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙