Position Title
Medical Records Tech (HIT)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12995629-26-KB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) position. The following section is used to identify basic requirements for this vacancy. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you. In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional qualification requirements. Applicants pending the completion of registration requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: Candidates interested in employment as a Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) must meet the basic requirements for appointment. NOTE: Applicants may qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria). The following questions pertain to the basic requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: Candidates interested in employment as a Medical Records Technician (Health Information Technician) must meet the basic experience and/or education requirements. NOTE: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.

Do you have one year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, and a general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT HIT work? OR

An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records)?
OR

Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:

(a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management.

(b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the U.S. Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience, provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.

 Yes
 No


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Medical Record Technicians (Health Information Technician) must be proficient in spoken and written English, as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f). Are you proficient in standard English?

 Yes
 No


3.
GS-05 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-04 level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: abstraction of clinical information for ongoing regulatory reviews; Contacts physicians and other ancillary service personnel regarding dictation and/or signatures; Assists medical staff by providing information as to required documentation communicates very closely with the medical staff to answer questions and resolve problems to insure quality documentation in the health records. Utilizes basic knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, and coding to research and collect information for various medical studies and research projects utilizing the Patient Treatment File (PTF) and PTF microfiche.

OR,

Education: Do you have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy & physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records)?

AND demonstrate Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Ability to communicate effectively with internal and external customers.

(b) Ability to utilize health information technology and various office software products used in health information management positions (e.g., Microsoft Excel, electronic health records, and delinquency tracking software).

(c) Knowledge of health record documentation guidelines and industry standards.

(d) Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes.

(e) Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy to fully understand the content of a health record.

 Yes
 No


4.
GS-06 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Communicates very closely with the medical staff to answer questions and resolve problems to insure quality documentation in the health records. Prepares lists of paper health records needed for signature(s) that are located in the incomplete record area for distribution to appropriate service lines (i.e., Medicine, Surgery, Psychiatry, etc.) or that are not complete in the electronic health record. Monitors delinquent dictation list for follow-up purposes on necessary documents (i.e., operation reports, discharge summaries, etc.) that are needed for completion of health records. Performs analytical tasks associated with the resolution of "filing" errors on reports uploaded by a transcription vendor.

AND demonstrate Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Ability to navigate efficiently through the health record to locate needed information.

(b) Ability to analyze health record documentation to ensure compliance with guidelines and industry standards.

(c) Skill in investigating potential health record errors and making corrections, when appropriate.

(d) Skill in interpreting and applying health information guidelines and using judgment to complete assignments.

(e) Ability to follow up on incomplete health record documentation.

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-07 EXPERIENCE: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-06 level?
Creditable experience include, but are not limited to: Identifies reviews, verifies, and corrects all statistical data concerning medical transcription to maintain accuracy of medical and statistical reports. Compares and resolves discrepancies between daily Gains and Losses Sheet, Digital System Workload Report and contract transcription logs as it relates to timeliness and accuracy of dictated reports completed by medical transcription contractor. Reviews health records for adherence with guidelines related to resident supervision and attending physician presence. Develops and compiles written reports trending provider specific, service, and hospital compliance reports regarding admission subsequent and discharge notes.

AND demonstrate Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Ability to judge whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support education and research needs.

(b) Ability to take appropriate actions if health record content is not adequate, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.

(c) Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with individuals or groups, to facilitate compliance with established policies and regulations.

(d) Skill in using appropriate software and computer applications to analyze and record documentation trends.

(e) Ability to apply qualitative and/or quantitative methods for assessment and improvement of health records.

(f) Ability to work independently and utilize problem-solving techniques in the accomplishment of work.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙