Position Title
Human Resources Specialist Civilian Awards Administrator)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12993456-HQ-RA-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 25, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current US Coast Guard federal employee within the local commuting area (50 miles) of they duty location?


 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your experience which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for the Human Resources Specialist (Civilian Awards Administrator) GS-0201-12 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service to include: (1) Providing advice and guidance on employee awards, recognition programs, or performance management processes to managers, supervisors, and employees to ensure compliance with organizational policies and procedures. (2) Reviewing and evaluating award nominations, personnel actions, or program documentation to ensure accuracy, completeness, and adherence to established requirements. (3) Developing, interpreting, or delivering policies, procedures, training materials, or briefings related to human resources programs or administrative functions. (4) Collecting, analyzing, and reporting program data to identify trends, assess program effectiveness, and recommend improvements to support organizational objectives. (5) Responding to customer inquiries, resolving program issues, and coordinating with multiple stakeholders to ensure timely and effective delivery of human resources services.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙