Position Title
Land Surveyor
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12878209-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


7.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


8.
Re-employed Annuitant

An annuitant under either the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS) may be reemployed in any position for which they are qualified. Reemployed annuitants may be hired on either a time-limited or a permanent position. There is no special appointment authority for a reemployed annuitant. However, PPP requisitions must stay open indefinitely when a reemployed annuitant is placed on a permanent appointment.

When an annuitant is hired within 90 days after retirement to a position in the same organization and in a similar position, the authorized official shall ensure that retention options were offered prior to the employee's retirement. Annuitants who previously accepted a Voluntary Separation Incentive Pay (VSIP)may not be reemployed within 12 months after separation (unless waived by the Secretary of Defense or his designee) or within 5 years following separation unless the VSIP is repaid or the Secretary of Defense has approved a waiver based on finding the individual is the only qualified applicant for the position.

Title 5 USC, Section 9902(h) provides that reemployed annuitants shall continue to receive full annuity and salary upon reemployment. Reemployed annuitants serve at the will of the appointing officer. Annuitants should be hired to meet critical mission needs. Situations in which it may be appropriate to reemploy an annuitant include but are not limited to: 
A hard-to-fill position as evidenced by historically high turnover, a severe shortage of candidates or other significant recruiting difficulty.
A position identified as critical to the accomplishment of the organization's mission or to complete a specific project or initiative.
An annuitant who has unique or specialized skills, or unusual qualifications not generally available.
An appointment is for not more than 2087 hours (e.g., one year full time or two years part time) to mentor less experienced employees and/or to provide continuity during critical organizational transitions.
Department of the Army (DA) Policy: Unless further delegated, the selection of annuitants for DA positions must be approved by the Secretary of the Army or Heads of DA Field Activities.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your retirement Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Benefits Information: In accordance with section 9902(h) of title 5, United States Code, annuitants reemployed in the Department of Defense shall receive full annuity and salary upon appointment. They shall not be eligible for retirement contributions, participation in the Thrift Savings Plan, or a supplemental or re-determined annuity for the reemployed period. Discontinued service retirement annuitants (i.e., retired under section 8336(d)(1) or 8414(b)(1)(A) of title 5, United Stated Code) appointed to the Department of Defense may elect to be subject to retirement provisions of the new appointment as appropriate. (See DoD Instruction 1400.25, Volume 300)

Are you a reemployed annuitant eligible?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Land Surveyor position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Land Surveyor at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in land surveying; or civil engineering with a surveying option/emphasis. My civil engineering major included at least 6 semester hours of surveying, 3 semester hours of land law, and 21 additional semester hours in any combination of the following: surveying, photogrammetry, geodetic surveying, geodesy, route surveying, remote sensing, cartography, survey astronomy, land information systems, computer-aided mapping, aerial photo interpretation, and survey analysis and adjustments. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major in land surveying or civil engineering, as described in paragraph A, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a current registration as a land surveyor in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia obtained by written examination under conditions outlined in the National Council of Engineering Examiners (NCEE) Unified Model Law for Registration of Surveyors. (Note: You must attach a copy of your registration obtained based on successful completion of the written examinations.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Land Surveyor at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience which includes:1) Utilizing a professional knowledge of physical science, boundary, and geospatial theories and application AND 2) Addressing complex assignments of considerable breadth related to geomatics and/or engineering investigations with wide latitude for the exercise of independent judgment in developing geospatial solutions. AND 3) Conducting the planning, coordination and execution of surveying and mapping functions to include in-house surveys 4) Managing contract requirements by distributing work to contract personnel .
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. -There are no right or wrong answers. -Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. -This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are managing the Real Estate Division's cadastral program when you receive notification that your annual budget will be reduced by 15% due to agency-wide cost constraints. You have three ongoing contracted survey projects and two planned in-house mapping initiatives. The District Commander needs a revised work plan within one week that maintains critical real estate support for upcoming construction projects while staying within the reduced budget.
Answer Choices:

 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of all current and planned work against project criticality and legal deadlines, then develop a phased approach that prioritizes essential real estate actions while negotiating contract modifications to extend timelines for less critical deliverables.
 Meet with project managers to identify which construction projects have the most flexible real estate timelines, then reallocate resources to focus on projects with firm legal deadlines while postponing non-critical mapping updates.
 Review all contracted work to identify potential cost savings through scope reductions, then redistribute the remaining budget proportionally across all projects to maintain some progress on each initiative.
 Immediately suspend the two planned in-house initiatives and reduce the scope of one contracted project to meet the budget constraint, then inform stakeholders of the delays after the plan is finalized.
 Request emergency funding from the District Commander to maintain all current projects as planned, explaining that any budget reduction would compromise the Division's ability to support construction schedules.


2.
During the contractor selection process for a complex cadastral mapping project, you discover that the highest technically rated firm has a key team member who previously worked on a similar project that resulted in significant delays and quality issues. The second-ranked firm has excellent references but limited experience with the specific GIS software required for this project. The project has a tight deadline due to pending real estate acquisitions.
Answer Choices:

 Conduct additional reference checks on the highest-rated firm's problematic team member and evaluate their role in the previous project issues, while also assessing the second firm's ability to quickly adapt to the required software through training or subcontracting arrangements.
 Select the second-ranked firm and require them to demonstrate proficiency with the required GIS software through a pilot task or provide evidence of planned training before contract award.
 Choose the highest technically rated firm but require them to replace the problematic team member or provide additional oversight measures to mitigate potential risks.
 Award the contract to the highest-rated firm based on their overall technical score, then implement enhanced monitoring procedures to catch any potential issues early in the project execution.
 Reject both firms and restart the selection process with more specific experience requirements, even though this will delay the project start by several months.


3.
You are overseeing three contracted survey teams working on different phases of a large military construction project. Team A has completed their boundary survey ahead of schedule, Team B is experiencing equipment failures that may delay their topographic work by two weeks, and Team C is waiting for environmental clearances before beginning their wetlands delineation. The Project Delivery Team needs all survey data integrated for the 60% design review in six weeks.
Answer Choices:

 Reassign Team A to assist Team B with their topographic work while coordinating with environmental staff to expedite Team C's clearances, then develop a phased data delivery schedule that allows design work to proceed with available information.
 Work with Team B to arrange backup equipment or alternative survey methods to minimize delays, while establishing a contingency plan for the design review that identifies which elements can proceed without complete survey data.
 Negotiate with the Project Delivery Team to extend the design review deadline by two weeks to accommodate the survey delays, while implementing daily progress monitoring for all teams.
 Require Team B to work overtime to make up for lost time and pressure environmental staff to fast-track Team C's clearances, accepting higher costs to meet the original deadline.
 Inform the Project Delivery Team that the survey delays are beyond your control and the design review must be postponed until all survey work is complete, regardless of project impacts.


4.
While preparing the annual budget for survey and cadastral services, you identify that emerging LiDAR technology could significantly improve efficiency and accuracy for future projects. However, implementing this technology would require substantial equipment purchases and staff training that would consume 40% of your discretionary budget. Several routine mapping projects would need to be delayed or contracted out at higher costs.
Answer Choices:

 Develop a cost-benefit analysis comparing long-term efficiency gains against short-term implementation costs, then propose a phased technology adoption plan that balances innovation with current operational requirements and stakeholder commitments.
 Research grant opportunities and partnership arrangements that could offset implementation costs, while developing a pilot program to demonstrate the technology's value before full-scale adoption.
 Propose implementing the technology for high-priority projects only, while maintaining traditional methods for routine work until the technology proves its value and costs decrease.
 Recommend postponing the technology adoption until the following fiscal year when a larger budget allocation might be available for equipment and training expenses.
 Implement the LiDAR technology immediately since it represents the future of surveying, and justify the decision by explaining that delayed projects can be completed more efficiently with the new equipment.


5.
An Architect-Engineer contractor has submitted survey deliverables for a flood control project that show significant discrepancies when compared to existing USGS benchmarks. The contractor claims their GPS equipment was properly calibrated and suggests the USGS data may be outdated. The design team needs to finalize elevations for critical infrastructure placement, and any errors could affect flood protection levels for the surrounding community.
Answer Choices:

 Conduct an independent verification survey of key control points using multiple survey methods, coordinate with USGS to confirm benchmark status and accuracy, then work with the contractor to identify and resolve the source of discrepancies before approving any deliverables.
 Require the contractor to resurvey using different equipment and methods while simultaneously requesting updated benchmark information from USGS, then compare all results to determine the most reliable elevation data.
 Review the contractor's calibration procedures and survey methodology in detail, then require them to tie into additional known control points to verify their results before accepting the deliverables.
 Accept the contractor's explanation and approve their survey data since their equipment was reportedly calibrated, but document the discrepancies and recommend additional verification during construction.
 Immediately reject the contractor's work and require a complete resurvey using only USGS benchmarks as control, regardless of the time and cost implications.


6.
You are reviewing a complex boundary survey for a land acquisition where the contractor's interpretation of a 1920s metes and bounds description conflicts with the current property owner's understanding of their boundary. The discrepancy involves approximately 2 acres of valuable waterfront property, and the difference could significantly impact acquisition costs and project feasibility.
Answer Choices:

 Conduct comprehensive research of historical surveys, deed records, and court documents, then perform field investigation to locate original monuments and evidence of long-term boundary occupation before developing a professional opinion on the correct boundary location.
 Research the chain of title and historical survey records to understand how the boundary has been interpreted over time, then coordinate with the property owner to review their documentation and evidence.
 Require the contractor to provide additional justification for their interpretation including research methodology and field evidence, while independently reviewing the original deed description and applicable surveying standards.
 Schedule a meeting with the property owner and contractor to discuss the discrepancy and attempt to reach a compromise boundary location that minimizes acquisition costs while maintaining project viability.
 Accept the contractor's interpretation since they are licensed professionals, then proceed with acquisition negotiations based on their boundary determination to avoid project delays.


7.
During quality assurance review of a photogrammetric mapping contract, you discover that the contractor used an outdated coordinate system that doesn't match the project specifications. The mapping covers 500 acres and integrating it with existing GIS data will require coordinate transformation. The contractor argues that their system is more accurate for the local area and offers to transform all existing data instead.
Answer Choices:

 Evaluate the accuracy implications of both coordinate systems for the specific project area, assess the effort required for each transformation approach, then determine which option best serves long-term data management needs while maintaining required accuracy standards.
 Require the contractor to transform their deliverables to the specified coordinate system while conducting accuracy testing to ensure the transformation meets project requirements and doesn't introduce unacceptable errors.
 Review the contractor's technical justification for using the alternative coordinate system and assess whether their approach provides superior accuracy that would benefit the overall project goals.
 Accept the contractor's recommendation to transform existing data since they claim their coordinate system is more accurate, but require them to perform the transformation at no additional cost.
 Reject the contractor's deliverables and require complete remapping using the specified coordinate system, regardless of any potential accuracy benefits from their alternative approach.


8.
A junior surveyor on your team has identified what appears to be a systematic error in elevation data from a recently completed topographic survey that affects drainage calculations for a construction project. The contractor insists their work is accurate and points to their quality control procedures. However, the discrepancy could impact storm water management design and potentially cause flooding issues.
Answer Choices:

 Conduct an independent field verification of questionable elevations using different survey methods, review the contractor's quality control documentation and procedures, then work collaboratively to identify the source of discrepancies and implement corrective measures.
 Require the contractor to perform additional quality checks on the elevation data while conducting spot checks of critical elevations using independent survey methods to verify accuracy.
 Review the contractor's survey methodology and quality control procedures in detail, then require them to resurvey areas where discrepancies exceed acceptable tolerances for drainage design.
 Document the junior surveyor's concerns and require the contractor to provide additional quality assurance documentation, but accept the survey data since it meets contract specifications.
 Dismiss the junior surveyor's concerns since the contractor is experienced and has provided quality control documentation, then approve the survey data to avoid project delays. Compentency ID: 63


9.
You are developing a comprehensive GIS database for a multi-phase civil works project that will span 10 years. The database must integrate survey data from multiple contractors, historical property records, environmental data from various agencies, and ongoing construction information. Different data sources use varying coordinate systems, accuracy standards, and update frequencies.
Answer Choices:
 Design a standardized data schema with defined coordinate systems and accuracy requirements, establish data integration protocols that include quality control procedures, and create automated workflows for regular updates while maintaining data lineage and version control.
 Develop standardized coordinate transformation procedures for all incoming data, establish quality control checkpoints for data integration, and create a centralized database structure that accommodates different data types and update schedules.
 Create separate data layers for each source type with appropriate metadata documentation, then develop manual procedures for integrating data as needed for specific project phases and analysis requirements.
 Require all contractors and agencies to provide data in a single specified format and coordinate system, then build a database structure that can accommodate the standardized inputs with basic version tracking.
 Store all data in its original format and coordinate system to preserve accuracy, then perform coordinate transformations and format conversions each time data analysis is required.


10.
While analyzing property records for a complex real estate acquisition, you discover that electronic deed records from the county database show different boundary descriptions than the original paper documents stored in the courthouse. The discrepancies affect multiple properties and could impact the legal sufficiency of the acquisition. The county clerk's office acknowledges data entry errors but cannot provide a timeline for corrections.
Answer Choices:
 Systematically compare electronic and paper records for all affected properties, document discrepancies with detailed analysis, coordinate with county officials to understand the scope of data issues, and develop a verification protocol that ensures legal descriptions are based on authoritative sources.
 Obtain certified copies of original paper documents for all affected properties, create a corrected database for project use, and work with county officials to identify the most reliable data sources for future acquisitions.
 Focus verification efforts on properties critical to the current project while documenting known discrepancies, then establish procedures to cross-check electronic records against paper documents for future acquisitions.
 Use only the original paper documents for the current project and recommend that all future acquisitions avoid electronic county records until the data quality issues are resolved.
 Proceed with the electronic records since they are the county's official database, but document the discrepancies and recommend additional title insurance to cover potential boundary issues.


11.
You need to resolve a property line dispute involving federal land where your analysis of survey data, deed records, and GIS information supports one boundary location, but a neighboring landowner has presented conflicting evidence including an older survey and claims of adverse possession. The dispute affects a critical easement needed for project access.
Answer Choices:
 Conduct a comprehensive boundary analysis including research of all available surveys, deeds, and court records, perform field investigation to locate physical evidence, evaluate adverse possession claims under applicable state law, and prepare a detailed technical report supporting the boundary determination.
 Research the complete chain of title and survey history for both properties, investigate the landowner's adverse possession claims, and coordinate with legal counsel to understand the strength of competing boundary evidence.
 Perform detailed analysis of all survey and deed evidence, document the basis for your boundary determination, and recommend that legal counsel evaluate the landowner's adverse possession claims before proceeding.
 Stand by your technical analysis of the boundary location and recommend that the government assert its property rights, while documenting the landowner's claims for potential future litigation.
 Recommend accepting the landowner's boundary claims to avoid litigation delays, since the disputed area is relatively small compared to the overall project scope.


12.
Your team is implementing a new CADD/GIS system to manage spatially referenced data for civil works projects. During the transition, you discover that legacy data from the previous system contains inconsistent coordinate references and some survey files have corrupted geometric data. The new system is needed for an upcoming project milestone, but data migration is taking longer than expected.
Answer Choices:
 Develop a systematic data validation and correction protocol, prioritize critical datasets for the upcoming milestone, establish parallel workflows using both systems during transition, and create quality assurance procedures to prevent future data corruption issues.
 Focus on migrating and validating data essential for the immediate project milestone while developing a comprehensive plan to address legacy data issues over time without disrupting ongoing operations.
 Implement the new system with available clean data while maintaining the legacy system for corrupted files, then gradually migrate remaining data as time and resources permit.
 Delay the system implementation until all legacy data can be properly validated and migrated, even if this impacts the project milestone schedule.
 Proceed with the new system implementation using all available data regardless of quality issues, then address any problems as they arise during project work.


13.
You are attending a Project Delivery Team meeting where the design engineer proposes relocating a project feature to avoid wetlands, but this change would require additional real estate acquisition from a property owner who has been resistant to previous negotiations. The environmental team supports the change, but the real estate team warns it could delay the project by 6-12 months and significantly increase costs.
Answer Choices:

 Facilitate discussion of all alternatives including environmental mitigation options, acquisition strategies, and design modifications, then help the team evaluate trade-offs between environmental compliance, schedule impacts, and cost implications to reach an informed decision.
 Present the surveying and mapping implications of each alternative, including time requirements for boundary surveys and environmental delineation, while supporting the team's evaluation of the most feasible approach.
 Provide technical input on survey requirements for both the original design and proposed relocation, then recommend the approach that minimizes surveying complexity and timeline impacts.
 Support the environmental team's recommendation since environmental compliance is mandatory, and suggest that real estate negotiations should be expedited to minimize schedule impacts.
 Recommend proceeding with the original design to avoid acquisition delays, since environmental permits can often be obtained through mitigation measures that are less costly than additional real estate.


14.
During a meeting with state transportation officials about a joint federal-state project, you learn that the state's survey standards differ significantly from federal requirements, particularly regarding accuracy tolerances and documentation procedures. The state officials indicate they cannot modify their standards due to existing contracts and internal policies, but federal regulations require compliance with specific accuracy standards.
Answer Choices:

 Work collaboratively to identify areas where standards can be harmonized, develop a technical approach that meets both agencies' core requirements, and propose supplemental procedures that ensure federal compliance while respecting state constraints.
 Analyze the differences between standards to identify critical compliance issues, then propose a hybrid approach that incorporates the most stringent requirements from both agencies while minimizing additional work.
 Recommend that federal and state portions of the project use their respective standards, with clearly defined interfaces and conversion procedures to ensure data compatibility and regulatory compliance.
 Insist that federal standards must be used for the entire project since federal funding is involved, but offer to provide technical assistance to help the state meet federal requirements.
 Suggest that the project be restructured so that each agency handles only their portion independently, eliminating the need to reconcile different standards and procedures.


15.
You have been asked to serve as an expert witness in a condemnation case where your boundary determination is being challenged by the property owner's surveyor. The case involves complex historical deed interpretations and your testimony could significantly impact the government's acquisition costs. The property owner's attorney has requested all of your research files and calculation methods.
Answer Choices:

 Prepare comprehensive documentation of your research methodology, analysis procedures, and professional conclusions, coordinate with government attorneys on disclosure requirements, and ensure your testimony clearly explains the technical basis for your boundary determination while maintaining professional objectivity.
 Work with government attorneys to understand disclosure requirements and prepare detailed technical documentation that supports your boundary determination, while ensuring all research methods and data sources are properly documented and defensible.
 Compile all relevant research materials and survey calculations, review your analysis for completeness and accuracy, then coordinate with legal counsel to determine what information should be disclosed and how to present technical findings effectively.
 Provide the requested files and documentation as required by legal discovery rules, then prepare testimony that focuses on defending your professional conclusions and survey methodology.
 Limit disclosure to final survey results and conclusions to protect proprietary survey methods, while preparing testimony that emphasizes your professional qualifications and experience rather than detailed technical analysis.


16.
You are coordinating with multiple federal agencies and local sponsors for a complex flood control project that requires extensive real estate acquisitions. Each stakeholder has different priorities: the Corps needs specific easements for construction access, EPA requires environmental buffer zones, the local sponsor wants to minimize community disruption, and affected property owners are concerned about compensation and timeline. Conflicting requirements are emerging that could impact project feasibility.
Answer Choices:

 Organize a comprehensive stakeholder workshop to identify all requirements and constraints, facilitate collaborative problem-solving to develop integrated solutions, and establish a coordination protocol that ensures ongoing communication and conflict resolution throughout the project.
 Meet individually with each stakeholder to understand their specific needs and constraints, then develop alternative approaches that address multiple concerns while maintaining project objectives and regulatory compliance.
 Document all stakeholder requirements and identify areas of conflict, then work with project leadership to prioritize requirements based on legal mandates and project criticality while seeking compromise solutions.
 Focus on meeting Corps requirements since they are the lead agency, then work with other stakeholders to modify their expectations to align with the primary project objectives.
 Recommend that each agency pursue their requirements independently through separate real estate actions, even if this results in multiple acquisitions from the same property owners. multiple acquisitions from the same property owners.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙