Position Title
Human Resources Chief Strategist
Agency
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Management
Announcement Number
DL-SL-OASAM-13026003-RW-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former DOL employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which you received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• You are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; AND,
• You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a reduction in force (RIF) separation notice, a SF50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area. You must also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than DOL who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which you received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a reduction in force (RIF) separation notice, a SF50 reflecting your RIF separation, or a notice of proposed removal for declining a directed reassignment or transfer of function to another commuting area. You must also submit documentation to reflect your current (or last) performance rating of record.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. In the event that my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will amend my responses to more accurately reflect the level of competency demonstrated in my resume.
 Yes
 No


2.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD-214, SF-50, most recent performance appraisal dated within 18 months (or a reason explaining why one cannot be provided) may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you first learn about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity?
Other College or University Sponsored Career Fair
Alumni Association
DOL Employee (former or current)
Indeed
LinkedIn
Peace Corps
DOL Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) Outreach
Disability Organization
Military Spouse Program/Network
Veterans Organization
Friend/Relative
USAJOBS
Other


4.
Please provide the name of the institution/college/university or organization/program/network where you first heard about this Department of Labor (DOL) job opportunity. If you learned about this DOL job opportunity through a DOL Sponsored Career Fair, please provide the name of the career fair. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


Core Questions
1.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate pay plan of the highest graded position you held.
GS
WG
AA
AD
AL
CA
ED
EF
EH
SES
EX
FC
GM
SL
Other
Not applicable


3.
If you selected "Other", please enter the Pay Plan. If not applicable, please enter N/A.


4.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the highest-grade level you held.
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
SES or Comparable Level
Other
Not applicable
SL


5.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest title, series, graded position you held (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present, or if not applicable, please enter N/A.).

Note: Time-In-Grade restrictions apply in relation to advancement to General Schedule positions of employees in the competitive service.


6.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable


7.
Have you previously held (in the last 5 years) or are you currently a Political Employee (i.e., PAS, PA, Non-career SES, or Schedule C). If so, please indicate the dates of the highest title, series, graded position you held (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present. If not applicable, please enter N/A.).


Assessment 1
1.
If you are a current Federal civilian employee, by what agency are you employed?
 U.S. Department of Labor
 Other Federal Agency
 I am not a Federal civilian employee.


2.
If you are a Department of Labor employee, please indicate the agency for which you are employed. If you are not a Department of Labor employee, please insert "N/A".


3.
Mandatory Technical Qualification #1 - Demonstrated mastery of Federal human capital management principles, laws, regulations, and policies to develop and implement enterprise-wide human resources strategies, policies, and workforce solutions that advance organizational objectives. This includes experience such as serving as a senior human resources advisor or technical authority responsible for interpreting and applying human resources laws and regulations, developing agency-wide human capital policies or strategic workforce initiatives, and advising senior executives on complex workforce management issues involving employee relations, labor relations, performance management, workforce planning, executive resources, or organizational effectiveness.
 I do not have the demonstrated experience related to the above Mandatory Technical Qualification.
 I have applied Federal human capital management principles, laws, regulations, and policies to provide human resources advice and support workforce programs within my assigned organization.
 I have led the development or implementation of significant human capital strategies, policies, or workforce initiatives and advised senior leaders on complex workforce management issues affecting multiple organizations or major programs.
 I have served as a senior human capital authority responsible for developing enterprise-wide workforce strategies and policies, advising executive leadership on the most complex human capital issues, and leading transformational initiatives that achieved measurable organizational results.


4.
Mandatory Technical Qualification #2 - Demonstrated ability to provide authoritative strategic advice and influence executive decision-making by analyzing complex workforce issues, developing policy recommendations, and leading collaborative human capital initiatives across organizations. This includes experience such as leading high-impact human capital initiatives that required evaluating complex workforce challenges, preparing executive-level policy analyses or decision papers, building consensus among senior leaders and stakeholders, and recommending innovative, data-informed solutions that improved organizational performance, strengthened workforce management practices, or ensured compliance with Federal human resources requirements.
 I do not have the demonstrated experience related to the above Mandatory Technical Qualification.
 I have analyzed workforce issues, developed recommendations, and provided human capital advice that informed management decisions within my organization.
 I have led complex human capital initiatives, developed executive-level policy recommendations, and collaborated with senior leaders to implement workforce solutions that improved organizational performance.
 I have served as a principal advisor to executive leadership by leading enterprise-wide human capital initiatives, influencing executive decision-making through authoritative policy analyses, and implementing innovative workforce solutions that produced sustained, measurable organizational improvements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙