Position Title
INDUSTRIAL SECURITY SPECIALIST (RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM LEAD)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-12924323-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current U.S. Citizen applying for this vacancy?

 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a Military Retiree within 180 days following your official retirement date? .
 Yes
 No


13.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


14.
Where did you learn about the DCSA position for which you are applying?
Campus event (in-person or virtual)
In-person hiring event
Virtual hiring event
DCSA website
USAJobs job search
USAJobs saved search email notification
DCSA employee
LinkedIn job posting
DCSA LinkedIn social media post
Recruiter LinkedIn post
Facebook post
X post
Handshake post
School job announcement
Professional organization
Conference career fair
Contacted by a Recruiter
Other


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.


 For the GG-11: I have the required equivalent specialized experience in the Federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) which has given me the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GG-09) and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience includes: Assisted in the initial stages of risk identification by reviewing corporate governance and ownership records to understand potential risk exposures. Applied foundational knowledge of intelligence and counterintelligence programs to help identify potential threat indicators impacting personnel and companies under supervision. Contributed to the risk management lifecycle by applying principles from USG security disciplines (e.g., personnel, industrial security) to complete assigned risk-related tasks. Supported the analysis of various company types, including their corporate governance, ownership, and control, to uncover ultimate beneficial ownership and potential Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI) vulnerabilities. Supported the completion of routine, low-complexity assignments to review, edit, approve, and coordinate Risk Mitigation Strategies (RMSs) with tailored controls, mitigating risks from companies involved in classified or sensitive contracts. Drafted clear and concise summaries and reports on factual risk information for review by senior team members. Interfaced with internal and external customers to provide status updates and gather required information for ongoing risk management cases under direct supervision. Documented and reported identified risk factors in entities for further evaluation and action by senior personnel. Or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR Three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree (e.g., Ph.D. or equivalent).
 For the GG-12: I have the required equivalent specialized experience in the Federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) which has given me the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GG-11) and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience includes: Applied a comprehensive understanding of multiple security disciplines, such as personnel, industrial, physical, and information security, to resolve security-related issues. Utilized knowledge of intelligence and counterintelligence programs to identify potential threat indicators impacting personnel and companies in support of case assignments. Executed vetting and mitigation actions on companies using established agency processes, systems, tools, and procedures. Supported the analysis of various company types, including their corporate governance, ownership, and control, to uncover ultimate beneficial ownership and potential Foreign Ownership, Control, or Influence (FOCI) vulnerabilities. Experience managing and ensuring the quality of Risk Management Strategies (RMSs) of moderate complexity, by reviewing and approving the work of other analysts, ensuring accuracy and compliance before informing high-stakes contracting decisions. Gathered complex business and security issues into clear and comprehensible written products and oral briefings for government and industry stakeholders. Served as a point of contact for internal and external customers to communicate mission requirements and provide status updates on current actions. Authored detailed reports that informed leadership and adjudicative authorities of identified business and security vulnerabilities within entities seeking access to classified or sensitive information.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


2.
Describe your experience analyzing an organization's structure, including its governance, ownership, or financial documentation, to identify and assess potential business or security risks.


3.
Describe your experience applying security principles or intelligence information to identify potential threats or resolve security issues related to personnel or companies.


4.
Describe your experience gathering complex business, security, or intelligence information into clear and concise written products (such as reports or summaries) or oral briefings for stakeholders.


5.
Describe your experience managing evaluations, assessments, or cases, which includes interfacing with internal or external customers to communicate requirements and provide status updates.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙