Position Title
Student Trainee (Aerospace Engineering)
Agency
National Aeronautics and Space Administration - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
NSSC-26-PW-12891888-TB Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a student who has been accepted for enrollment or is enrolled at least half-time in an accredited college, university, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Huntsville, AL
 B. Edwards AFB, CA
 C. Moffett Field, CA
 D. Washington, DC
 E. Kennedy Space Center, FL
 F. Stennis Space Center, MS
 G. Las Cruces, NM
 H. Cleveland, OH
 I. Houston, TX
 J. Hampton, VA


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee in the civil service?
 I am a current federal employee in the civil service
 I am a former federal employee in the civil service
 Not applicable


Assessment 1
Instructions
Your answers to this questionnaire will determine your eligibility for the NASA Pathways Intern Employment Program (IEP), the grade for which you will be considered, and eligibility for a particular Center.  You will only be considered for the grade matching your claimed academic level.  

Your application materials, including your resume and transcripts, MUST support your responses to this questionnaire. The responses you provide about your education (e.g., degree program, major, credit hours, GPA) will be verified based on the supporting documents (e.g., transcripts, acceptance letter) you submit with your application. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application since NASA cannot modify responses made in error.


Education Degree Program and Status


1.
What is the official name of the educational institution where you are currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment?


2.
In what type of degree program are you currently enrolled or accepted for enrollment?
 Certificate program
 Associate's degree
 Bachelor's degree
 Master's degree
 Doctorate degree
 Juris doctor degree
 Other
 Dual degree (e.g., bachelor's/master's; master's/doctorate)


3.
As of TODAY, how many credit hours have you completed in your current degree program? Do NOT count credit hours that are in progress.

If you are in a dual degree program, select the option that BEST describes what coursework you have completed, which is supported by the transcript submitted with your application and/or other supporting documents.

Note: Your response to this question will determine the grade level for which you will be considered.
 I have completed at least 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours in a certificate, associate's degree, or bachelor's degree program.
 I have completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours in a certificate or bachelor's degree program.
 I have completed at least 90 semester hours or 135 quarter hours in a certificate or bachelor's degree program.
 I have been accepted to a master's program but have not started.
 I am in the first year of a master's program.
 I have completed at least 1 academic year of a master's program.
 I have been accepted to a doctorate program but have not started.
 I am in the first year of a doctorate program.
 I have been accepted to a juris doctor program but have not started.
 I am in the first year of a juris doctor program.
 I have completed at least 1 academic year of a juris doctor program.
 None of the above.


Education Major


4.
For this position it is REQUIRED that applicants are pursuing a degree with a major in Aerospace Engineering, Aeronautical Engineering, or Astronautical Engineering.

Are you pursuing a degree in one of these REQUIRED majors?

Note: Degrees in Engineering Technology do NOT meet this requirement.
 Yes
 No


5.
What is the complete name of your academic major?


Education GPA


6.
What is your cumulative grade point average (GPA) as shown on the transcript you submitted with your application?
 My cumulative GPA is 2.90 or HIGHER on a 4.0 scale or equivalent.
 My cumulative GPA is LOWER than 2.90 on a 4.0 scale or equivalent.


7.
Provide the cumulative grade point average (GPA) on a 4.0 scale (e.g., 3.53) shown on the transcript you submitted with your application. Do NOT round your GPA up or down.

Note: If your GPA is unavailable from your current educational institution, provide the cumulative GPA from your MOST recently completed educational program.


Pathways Program Availability


8.
The expected start dates for the internship are June 1, 2026 or August 24, 2026.

Which date are you available to begin work?


 I am available August 24, 2026.
 I am available on both dates.
 I am unavailable on both dates.
 I am available June 1, 2026.


9.
The internship program requires participants to work a MINIMUM of 480 hours between their start date and the date they complete their current degree program.

Are you able to meet the work hours requirement for the internship program?

Note: If you are applying based on acceptance into a degree program, consider that as your current degree program when responding to this question.
 Yes, I am able to work the required minimum of 480 hours prior to completing my degree program.
 No, I am unable to work the required minimum of 480 hours prior to completing my degree program.


10.
Will you be graduating from your current degree program on or after August 22, 2026?

Note: Your current degree program is the one you selected in Question 2 above.
 Yes
 No


11.
What date do you expect to complete your current degree program?

Note: Your current degree program is the one you selected in Question 2 above.


12.
Will you be at least 16 years of age by the expected start date you selected?
 Yes
 No


Internship Experience


13.
Have you previously participated in an internship program?

Note: A previous internship is NOT a requirement and will NOT affect your eligibility for this position.
 Yes
 No


14.
If you previously participated in an internship program, what organization provided your MOST recent internship?
 NASA OSTEM
 Other federal government agency
 State or local government agency
 Corporation
 Educational institution
 Other organization
 Not applicable


Certification


15.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙