Position Title
QUALITY ASSURANCE MANAGER - INTERDISCIPLINARY
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-26-MMP-12902550-GM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 13, 2026 to Mar 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Food Safety and Inspection Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment AND you have held or currently hold a position on a permanent basis in the competitive service with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0403 - Microbiology
 B. 1320 - Chemistry


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you learn about this FSIS position? Please select all that apply.
 A. LinkedIn
 B. Social Media (such as Facebook, Twitter, etc.)
 C. Job Finder Site (such as Indeed, Monster, etc.)
 D. Job Board from School, College, University, or Alumni Organization (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity, 12Twenty, Other)
 E. Local Billboard
 F. FSIS-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event
 G. School-Sponsored Job Fair, Career Fair, or Information Session/Event Sponsored by a School, College, University, or Alumni Organization
 H. FSIS Employee
 I. USDA Employee
 J. Friend, Family Member, or non-FSIS or non-USDA Coworker
 K. USAJobs Search
 L. Other


4.
Please share any additional details about how you learned about this position, especially if you selected "Other" in the previous question. If nothing to add, enter "N/A".


5.
2-PAGE LIMIT ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - I understand that my resume cannot exceed 2-pages in length for the initial qualification determination. If my resume exceeds two pages, then I understand I will be removed from consideration.

For more information on what to include in your resume, see the "Required Documents" and "How to Apply" sections of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


6.
DOCUMENT UPLOADS - I understand that each document uploaded must be less than 5MB and in one of the following document formats: GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, PDF, TXT, or Word (.DOC or .DOCX). For more information see the "How to Apply" portion of the vacancy announcement.
 Yes
 No


7.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Question
The following narrative question provides an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address the question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


2.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This position is interdisciplinary and may be filled with either the 1320 Chemistry series or the 0403 Microbiology series. In addition to the specialized experience requirement, you must meet a basic requirement to qualify.


1.
You can meet the basic requirement for the microbiology series with education or a combination of education and experience. Select the answer that describes how you meet the basic requirement.

 A. Degree: microbiology; or biology, chemistry, or basic medical science that included at least 20 semesters in microbiology and other subjects related to the study of microorganisms, and 20 semesters in the physical and mathematical sciences combining course work in organic chemistry or biochemistry, physics, and college algebra, or their equivalent.
 B. Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in microbiology, biology, chemistry, or basic medical science that included courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. Graduate education: Microbiology, or specific areas of study such as bacteriology, virology, mycology, algology, protozoology, parasitology, immunology, serology, microbial genetics, or soil microbiology; or specific applied fields of microbiology such as clinical and public health microbiology, food technology, production processes, industrial fermentation, pollution, etc. Graduate study in related fields such as experimental pathology, infectious diseases, epidemiology, biochemistry, animal or plant physiology, genetics, plant pathology, and insect disease control, may also be pertinent, provided it has direct application to microbiological work.
 D. I am not applying to this series.
 E. I do not meet the basic requirement.


2.
You can meet the basic requirement for the chemistry series with education or a combination of education and experience. Select the answer that describes how you meet the basic requirement.

 A. Degree: physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics.
 B. Combination of education and experience -- course work equivalent to a major as shown in A above, including at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 C. I am not applying to this series.
 D. I do not meet the basic requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade or its equivalent as described in the Qualifications section of the announcement. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Time-in-grade: You must have completed 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade to meet the time-in-grade requirement for this position.

 I have completed 52 weeks at the GS-12 grade or its equivalent in the federal service.
 I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement.


5.
In accordance with the quality system, ISO standard, and organizational goals of protecting public health and safety, I have experience with the following (select all that apply):

 A. Approving, issuing, controlling, and/or ensuring compliance of procedural documents.
 B. Determining the need to halt work on client samples when nonconforming work or departures from a quality system can impact the reliability of a laboratory's results.
 C. Providing guidance to laboratory staff and Office of Public Health Science (OPHS) personnel regarding laboratory quality assurance plans and quality control programs.
 D. Reporting nonconformances immediately and participating in root-cause analysis and corrective actions.
 E. Maintaining laboratory accreditation status.
 F. None of the above.


6.
I have the following experience documenting objective evidence to verify compliance with the laboratory quality assurance system (select all that apply):

 A. Reviewing analytical results and records to confirm procedural steps were completed.
 B. Evaluating method validation data, including raw data and final reports.
 C. Maintaining traceability records for analytical data, reference materials, and equipment calibrations.
 D. Preparing documentation for proficiency testing or interlaboratory comparisons.
 E. Securing and tracking primary reference standards.
 F. None of the above.


7.
Ensuring compliance with occupational safety and health regulations and established procedures, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Managing a chemical hygiene plan, biological safety program, and/or radiation safety program.
 B. Performing periodic safety inspections of laboratory activities
 C. Maintaining required records, including hazardous waste manifests, periodic reports, inspection checklists, and training logs.
 D. Identifying potential exposures to laboratory employees from hazardous operations.
 E. Evaluating laboratory safety, health, security, and environmental practices and programs.
 F. Ensuring personnel stay informed about hazardous biological agents in their work areas.
 G. None of the above.


8.
In relation to the laboratory quality system and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) for testing laboratories, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Leading corrective actions, including root cause analysis and verification of effectiveness.
 B. Guiding method validation projects.
 C. Directing the development and/or modifications of a Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) to reflect revisions in the quality system.
 D. Coordinating the development, review, and/or revision of standard operating procedures.
 E. Training colleagues on methodology and documentation requirements.
 F. None of the above.


9.
When guiding new and existing personnel, I have experience performing the following (select all that apply):

 A. Providing training in ISO 17025 requirements.
 B. Mentoring analysts by reviewing data, offering feedback, and modeling good laboratory practices.
 C. Overseeing the use and storage of hazardous substances.
 D. Managing the laboratory’s hazardous waste program by assuring staff properly classified, accumulated, transported, and stored waste.
 E. Monitoring safety procedures and ensuring personnel are adhering to the laboratory’s safety procedures and plans.
 F. None of the above.


10.
Through internal and/or external quality assurance audits, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Acting as a liaison between the assessor and laboratory.
 B. Collecting and organizing supporting evidence for compliance.
 C. Preparing responses to audit reports.
 D. Interview staff to assess their understanding of the procedure.
 E. Demonstrating analytical processes to verify compliance with procedure.
 F. Assessing equipment calibration, maintenance, and documentation for compliance.
 G. None of the above.


11.
My experience in the development of technical documentation includes the following (select all that apply):

 A. Quality control trending reports
 B. Quality assurance policies
 C. Work instructions
 D. Analytical methodology
 E. Safety plans and programs
 F. None of the above


12.
Serving as a quality assurance information resource between the laboratory and other divisions, organizations, and program areas, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Participating in internal and external audits.
 B. Collaborating with others to draft and revise standard operating procedures and analytical methods.
 C. Communicating laboratory requirements with vendors to ensure shared understanding of ISO and quality control expectations.
 D. Determining the need for informational copies of controlled documents to be distributed to auditors or visitors.
 E. Making recommendations to an organization and/or director regarding laboratory quality assurance plans.
 F. None of the above.


13.
In relation to working with radioactive material, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Ensuring that employees using radioactive materials or radiation-emitting equipment are properly trained.
 B. Confirming local emergency plans address accidents involving radioactive material.
 C. Maintaining a Radiation Safety Program.
 D. Obtaining and/or sustaining a radioactive material permit or license for the facility.
 E. None of the above.


14.
Regarding written communication, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Developing, modifying, reviewing, and approving quality system policies and procedures.
 B. Preparing and/or presenting an audit report.
 C. Formulating responses to audit reports.
 D. Providing briefings, updates, and reports involving microbiology or chemistry.
 E. None of the above.


15.
In respect to the development, revision, and/or approval of quality system documents, I have experience in the following (select all that apply):

 A. Quality manual
 B. Analytical methodology
 C. Standard operating procedures
 D. Directives
 E. Forms or worksheets
 F. Software or databases
 G. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙