Position Title
Supervisory Investigative Analyst (Supervisory Criminal Analyst)
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
HSI-12985165-MP-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) employee who is serving on a career or career-conditional appointment?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


2.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 Yes
 No


4.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'.


5.
Candidates who have permanently held a position with a full performance level equivalent to GS-15 or higher in the competitive service can be referred for selection without competition under our agency merit promotion procedures. Please provide an SF-50 to substantiate your claim. Without an SF-50 as proof, we cannot apply non-competitive rules. Military rank, details and temporary promotions do not count.

The SF-50 submitted MUST indicate the same full performance level (or higher) equivalent to the full performance level shown on this vacancy, career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2), and the status as a competitive service employee (Position Occupied is 1).

Your response to the following question will be used to determine whether you will or may be categorized as a non-competitive eligible.

Have you ever held (or do you currently hold) a competitive service position on a permanent basis in the federal government with a full performance level equivalent to GS-15 or higher?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
There is a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement for promotion into this position. Have you completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level?
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-14 grade level.
 Not Applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-15 grade level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I am currently a non-General Schedule (GS) employee and have not held a GS position within the last 52 weeks.


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the option that best describes your experience:
 I possess one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent performing duties such as: Supervising the production and dissemination of comprehensive criminal analyses that enable criminal investigators to identify, prioritize, investigate, disrupt, and dismantle criminal organizations within a programmatic or geographic area of responsibility; setting priorities, determining requirements, allocating resources, anticipating obstacles and opportunities to leverage and integrate criminal analysis, collection, production, and dissemination; reviewing strategies, concepts of operations, and operational plans to provide recommendations for including analytical results, initiatives, efforts, or capabilities, and outcomes; supervising, applying, teaching, and enhancing the HSI Framework for Criminal Analysis to effectively support criminal investigations and drive criminal investigative priorities; and developing and promoting improvements to the Framework in the form of best practices, new methodologies, and enhanced structured analytical techniques.
 I do not possess the above specialized experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙