Position Title
NURSING (OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12906863-AR-26-055 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Safety Office
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Safety Office
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O1 - O5 in any branch of service and willing to become a member of the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have an Undergraduate Degree in Health Administration, Health Care Administration (or equivalent), Health Care Management, Health Management and Policy, Health Services Administration (or equivalent), Hospital Administration (or equivalent), or related fields such as, Primary Care Management, and Bachelors of Science in Nursing (BSN/RN), Biology, or microbiology. Bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN/RN) or Biology. Other completed degrees are acceptable in Public Health, Entomology, Microbiology, Zoology, Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering and Health Management/Health Systems Engineering, Operations Research, or other closely-related degree fields or do you have a Certification as an Occupational Health Nurse or a Graduate Degree in Public Health (MPH/MSPH) with a bachelor's degree in a biological science. Other educational options are a Master's in Health Administration, Health Care Administration, Health Care Management, Health Management and Policy, Health Services Administration (or equivalent), or Hospital Administration?
 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.


2.
All series personnel must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level and must have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level. Must have validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade. Do you have these experiences?

 Yes I do.
 No I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Do you have at least 36 months experience, education, or training which provided working knowledge of the principles and practices related to the management of occupational health care delivery systems? Experience in analyzing and recommending solutions to complicated problems related to health systems? Experience must include a working knowledge of missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of occupational health care delivery systems? Experience in briefing senior leaders on related subjects are required?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


4.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


5.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes, I have.
 No, I haven't.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙