Position Title
Senior Level Attorney Advisor (Copyright)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
EXRD - OPIA-26-12983569 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jul 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you possess a J.D. Degree?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an active member in good standing of the Bar?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


4.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


5.
Are you currently receiving or are you scheduled to receive severance pay as a result of a Reduction in Force (RIF) from a Federal Agency?
 Yes
 No


6.
Have you accepted a Voluntary Separation Payment (VSIP/"buyout") from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Professional/Technical Qualifications
There is NO requirement to prepare a narrative statement specifically addressing the Professional/Technical Qualifications (PTQs). When completing the USAJOBS short-answer sections, use the text boxes to identify relevant experience from your two-page resume for each PTQ. Each response is limited to 150 characters (including spaces). Be sure your examples match information included in your resume, as unrelated text will not be considered.


1.
Please identify where in your two-page resume the applicable experience for PTQ #1 can be found.
 
Expertise related to copyright law, the U.S. legislative process, and providing expert legal advice regarding copyright law and policy, including writing and reviewing complex legal documents as it pertains to leadership positions and with managing resources in a technical, legal, or government organization.


2.
Please identify where in your two-page resume the applicable experience for PTQ #2 can be found.

Demonstrated experience to effectively communicate with high-ranking officials both within and outside the federal government, including Members of Congress, international organizations, and stakeholders regarding highly complex and sensitive issues pertaining to domestic copyright law and policy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙