Position Title
Supervisory Attorney-Advisor (General)
Agency
Office of General Counsel
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12945135-X Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


6.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


7.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


Basic Requirements
Basic Requirements: Applicants MUST:
(1) be a graduate of an accredited law school with an LL.B. or J.D.;
(2) be a current member of a bar with a valid license to practice law in a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; AND
(3) meet all specialized experience and professional legal experience requirements as described in the vacancy announcement.


1.
Are you a graduate of an accredited law school with a LL.B. or J.D. degree?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please indicate the degree you received as well as the name of the law school and the school's location (city, state) where you obtained your degree.


3.
Do you have a current membership in the bar of the highest court of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate the State, Territory, City and/or Commonwealth in which you are a member of the bar of the highest court and provide your bar number.


Assessment 1
Requirements for meeting the GS-15 level includes:
First professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus five (5) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-14 in the federal service.
OR
Second professional law degree (LL.M.), plus four (4) years professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-14 in the federal service.
OR
Have superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the schools official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) plus four (4) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-14 level in the Federal service.


1.
Select the choice that best describes how you meet the requirements for the GS-15.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.), plus five (5) years of professional legal experience at least one of which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-14 in the federal service.
 I have a professional law degree (LL.M.), plus four (4) years professional legal experience at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-14 level in the Federal service.
 I have superior law student work (academic standing in the upper 1/3 of the law school graduating class, high-level honors for academic excellence in law school, winning of a moot court competition with other law schools, significant work or achievement on the school’s official law review, significant summer clerkship or other evidence of clearly superior achievement) four (4) year of professional legal experience which must be at a level of difficulty comparable to the GS-14 level in the Federal service.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements for this position as described above.


For the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
- Legal experience with federal, state and local regulations affecting single family and multifamily mortgage insurance programs, Healthcare Programs, assisted housing programs, FHA property disposition, FHA multifamily loan management, Fair Housing compliance, or community development block grant programs. AND 
- Experience leading or supervising attorneys or paralegals, or comparable management and leadership experience. AND 
- Experience coordinating assigned activities of an office and discussing the activities with the staff assigned to the office. A desirable candidate should have at least one year experience at the GS-14 grade level and has demonstrated legal knowledge in one or more of the areas described above, and has ongoing experience providing effective legal advice on complex and novel legal issues, managing a heavy workload and developing and maintaining productive working relationships with clients, other agencies and stakeholders, and the public.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have one year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙