Position Title
Senior Advisor (Organizational Transformation and Governance)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13008255-26-BG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


Assessment 1
1.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent. To include candidates must also have specialized experience understanding financial reports, understanding budgetary timelines and transactions including reports to Congress, preparing various reports; analyzing internal controls; and reviewing, analyzing and resolving a variety of issues. Candidates must have at least one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade level or equivalent by the closing date or no later than 30 calendar days after the closing date of the vacancy announcement and before placement in the position.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙