Position Title
SELF-DIRECTED HARM PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13026481-AR-26-171 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 Yes
 No


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (JFHQ - IPPW) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (JFHQ - IPPW) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Basic Qualification that you possess.
 I HAVE 1) skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately, 2) the ability to write English in reports and presentation formats, 3) the ability to communicate -orally and in writing- clearly and effectively, 4) the ability to assess body language to ensure positive response and understanding results, 5) skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting technical material.
 I DO NOT possess ALL of the factors described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS that you possess.
 I HAVE 1) Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I DO NOT HAVE the mandatory positive education identified above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-12 Self-Directed Harm Prevention Specialist.
 I HAVE at least one year of specialized experience, education or training at the GS-11 level or equivalent, 1) possess experience in the organization, management, and administration of programs and services to participate in family violence and abuse prevention program planning, 2) knowledge working with complex helping systems, 3) planning, conducting and evaluating family violence and abuse prevention training programs, 4) knowledge of laws, regulations, executive orders, issues, etc., relating to the primary prevention of family violence and abuse (i.e., child abuse, domestic violence, and intimate partner violence) and the development of healthy behaviors, averting harm or abuse before it occurs, 5) knowledge of policies and requirements for the development and analysis of the family violence and abuse prevention efforts in order to integrate effective prevention measures, 6) Knowledge of analytical techniques to identify, analyze and/or recommend solutions to problems encountered and to develop Statistical data and narrative reports, and 7) experience in managing the function of the work to be performed, and experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 I DO NOT have at least one year of specialized experience, education or training listed above.


Read through all the following questions carefully and answer in complete sentences.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



8.
I certify that I have used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language mode [LLM]) to answer the above questions.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙