Position Title
Government Information Specialist
Agency
Office of the Chief Administrative Officer
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12860082 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 07, 2026 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current HUD employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current HUD employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD employee serving on a VRA appointment
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


6.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


7.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


Performance Appraisal
1.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-13 level: 52 weeks of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service for this position, Specialized experience is defined as:
-Researching, interpreting and applying federal laws, regulations, legal decisions, policies, procedures, and directives related to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA); AND
-Ensuring the protection of personally identifiable information of personnel and impacted members of the public; AND
-Analyzing compliance documentation related to FOIA, assessing and collaborating with personnel regarding the documentation and the protection of PII; AND
-Providing advice, guidance or consultation on issues related to implementation of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, and/or other privacy related laws and guidance.


1.
Do you meet the specialized experience statement as described in the question above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following statements describe(s) your experience with analyzing privacy compliance documentation in accordance with the FOIA U.S.C. 552, Privacy Act and/or other privacy-related laws and guidelines?
 A. I have experience providing testimony for FOIA cases in litigation.
 B. I have experience reviewing the most unique FOIA compliance documentation.
 C. I have experience working with legal to determine the impact of FOIA compliance documentation.
 D. I have experience following the FOIA process from start to finish without supervision of others.
 E. None of the above.


3.
Choose the statement(s) that describes your FOIA experience.
 A. I am comfortable processing unique FOIA requests, processing appeals, and litigation cases and other related FOIA processing techniques.
 B. I have advised management regarding FOIA matters that may be potentially sensitive to the organization.
 C. I provided guidance and direction regarding FOIA requirements to junior FOIA analysts.
 D. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following describe your levels of experience communicating information in writing? Select all that apply.
 A. I have independently written correspondence regarding FOIA processes and guidance, and safeguarding requirements imposed by FOIA and the Privacy Act.
 B. I have, in collaboration with program offices, provided guidance and direction on FOIA processes for agency records.
 C. I have been acknowledged by supervision for my ability to convey my thoughts in writing.
 D. I have independently written response letters to requestors.
 E. None of the above.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience responding to FOIA questions and issues.
 I have prepared correspondence or other documents that were in compliance with FOIA.
 I have received, documented, tracked questions and complaints, and coordinated responses regarding application of FOIA in my agency.
 I have investigated and responded to complaints regarding incoming requests for FOIA.
 None of the above.


6.
For which purposes or goals have you prepared written materials?
 A. To describe program findings and recommendations.
 B. To summarize the results of research or a project.
 C. To recommend a solution to a problem with supporting documentation and evidence.
 D. To describe a proposed process change.
 E. To influence the opinion or action of others.
 F. To negotiate agreement among conflicting parties.
 G. To explain a complicated or technical issue.
 H. None of the above.


7.
Select the response(s) that reflect the types of written products you have prepared related to communications. Select all that apply.
 A. Policies and procedures
 B. Findings and recommendations
 C. Internal guidance on data or analysis
 D. Talking points for management
 E. Budget Reports
 F. Presentation materials
 G. None of the above.


8.
Select the responses that reflect the communications, briefing and/or interpersonal skills you have used as a regular part of your job. Select all that apply.
 A. Explain or justify conclusions, findings or recommendations to upper level management.
 B. Represent my organization in meetings with external individuals and/or organizations.
 C. Brief managers on policy or procedural changes or program initiatives.
 D. Establish and maintain liaison with Departmental and field staff to ensure that customer service needs are addressed in a timely and efficient manner.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Select the statement that best describes your experience establishing deadlines and completing work.
 I have completed tasks by deadlines established by my supervisor with little to no variation in priorities or shifting deadlines.
 I have established my own priorities with guidance from my supervisor based on the overall priorities of the office. The priorities and deadlines rarely change and I complete my work on time.
 I have established my own priorities based on my knowledge of overall priorities of the office. If conflicting deadlines or work occur, I consulted my supervisor for advice. There have been times that I have had to re-prioritize based on conflicting deadlines.
 I have established my own deadlines and priorities to manage my workload based on the overall mission/priorities and goals of the office. I often had to re-organize my workload due to changing deadlines and priorities. I did this independently, asking my supervisor for advice only occasionally.
 None of the above.


10.
From the list below, select the choice that most closely represents your experience with planning, coordinating, and arranging meetings, conferences or workshops.
 Arranged meetings for my organization based on specific instructions from my supervisor or other higher-level employee which included reserving an office or conference room and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees included employees from within the same office/organization.
 Planned and coordinated high level meetings within my organization which included making travel arrangements, ensuring proper meeting rooms were reserved and ensuring for proper levels of access. Attendees included heads of offices or organizations but were not characterized as headquarter or national level offices.
 Arranged meetings for my assigned office/organization which involved arranging for a conference room and informing attendees of time and location. Attendees included employees from within the local organization but could include other offices or external parties.
 I do not have any experience as described in the choices above.


11.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience?
 A. Established priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Established timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Started up and managed projects through completion.
 D. Established and monitored project progress.
 E. Anticipated and resolved problems.
 F. None of the above.


12.
Please select from the following list the areas in which you have professional experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Analyzing data and documents, applying redactions and preparing a response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request
 B. Utilizing eDiscovery to obtain responsive records
 C. Analyzing security and Federal FOIA/Privacy statutes in order to apply exemptions
 D. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙