Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Microbiology/Molecular)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12830753-26-DJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 10, 2025 to Thursday, November 20, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Clinical Laboratory Scientist GS-0644-11.


Basic Requirements:

United States Citizenship: Non-citizens may only be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Policy.

Education: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Certification: Candidates must meet one of the certification options below. (Does not apply to GS-7 - Please see the certification section below)


Please select the appropriate response to the questions below that best describe your Education/experience


1.
(1) Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. OR
 Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science. (2) Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing. Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles. Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance. Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments. Ability to read and interpret written instructions. Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing. (3) Assignment. An individual at this grade level serves as a developmental CLS. The CLS is responsible for evaluating, performing, interpreting, and validating the accuracy and validity of test results. The CLS demonstrates a clear progression of clinical knowledge and experience by performing testing procedures on a variety of biological specimens using manual or 8 automated methods. This includes routine testing, quality control, routine maintenance of instrumentation, and troubleshooting that applies innovative procedures and problem solving. Deviations from regular procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to more experienced staff for a decision or assistance. Assignments at this level will include developmental duties of increasing scope and diversity as compared to the entry level. It is expected that a CLS at this grade performs more complex work while receiving less frequent supervision than at the entry level.
 I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
 I have a Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I do not meet the experience as listed above.


Minimum Requirement for GS-11 Level.


2.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11.

(1) Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. OR
 Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science, (2) Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work. Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement. Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes. Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation. Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results. Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions. Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education. (3) Assignment. This is considered FPL for a CLS. A CLS at this level independently carries out the day-to-day operations in the laboratory. The CLS develops, performs, evaluates, interprets, correlates, and validates the accuracy of laboratory procedures and results in line with current laboratory regulatory requirements. The work performed may be in a variety of laboratory specialties such as chemistry, microbiology, immunology, hematology, and immunohematology. Testing procedures are performed on a variety of biological specimens and/or environmental samples using manual or automated methods. In addition to routine testing, the CLS conducts quality control and routine maintenance of instrumentation and troubleshooting. The CLS correlates abnormal lab data with pathological states, determines the validity of test results, and the need for additional tests. Specific targeted laboratory responsibilities or projects may include laboratory safety officer, analyzer specialist, primary operator on new test systems, quality control specialist, supply control, and/or coordinator for the laboratory competency assessment or proficiency/survey program. This assignment may include limited duties in areas such as lab information management and ancillary testing. These tasks require a broad exercise of independent judgment and responsibility, including organizing and setting priorities with minimal technical supervision. The CLS assesses a situation, considers the options, and formulates an appropriate course of action. This assignment includes monitoring quality control systems and measures, collaborating in the diagnosis and treatment of patients, and providing education for laboratory health care professionals and the public in a professional, courteous, and effective manner.
 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
 I have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science,
 I do not meet the experience as listed above.


Please review the exceptions for applicants who do not have certification. Exception for Non-Certified: Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of 4 the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency. Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2). Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL. Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained. Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.


3.
Certification: Candidates applying must meet one of the certification options below (This does not include GS-7):
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?

 I have one of the required certifications.
 I do not currently hold a certification.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙