Position Title
Training Program Specialist (Intern)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
NIGC-26-EW-001(EXC) Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Feb 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
What attracted you to this position?
 Service as a Civil Servant
 Government Benefits
 Salary
 Work Schedule Flexibility
 Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 Job Stability
 Office Location
 Other


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a student enrolled in an accredited educational institution above the high school level?
 Yes
 No


2.
I understand that I must include a resume or CV with my application, and provide a response to all three questions below by the closing date for my application to be considered.
 Yes
 No


Please respond to the following questions. Is it recommended that you type your narrative responses in a separate document, and then cut and paste them into the narrative text box to ensure that your application doesn't time out while you are typing your response. USA Staffing will time out after 15 minutes of inactivity, and typing in a narrative text box is not registered as activity.


3.
Describe how this internship will further your academic program goals. (Do not exceed 3,500 characters.)


4.
How does an internship with the National Indian Gaming Commission align with your future career path? (Do not exceed 3,500 characters.)


5.
Elaborate on why you are the best fit for this position academically, professionally and personally. (Do not exceed 3,500 characters.)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙