Position Title
SUPERVISORY AUDITOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12932430-AR-26-063-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board T5 employee within the USPFO Internal Review Division (SF-50 required)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at the next lower GS-grade (or equivalent) which has equipped you with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


2.
Responsible for planning, directing, coordinating, and reviewing daily and long term operations. Maintains and ensures professional competence within the unit. Ensures advice and assistance provided complies with legal and regulatory requirements and meets customer needs. Develops goals and objectives that integrate organization and overall internal review program objectives. Researches, interprets, analyzes and applies applicable internal review guidelines, policies and objectives.


2a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


3.
Exercises supervisory personnel management responsibilities. Advises and provides counsel to employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management. Selects or recommends selection of candidates for vacancies, promotions, details, and reassignments in consideration of skills and qualifications, mission requirements, EEO objectives. Develops, modifies, and/or interprets performance standards. Explains performance expectations to employees and provides regular feedback on strengths and weaknesses.


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙