Position Title
Student Trainee (Park Ranger) Continuing Pathways Intern
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13070883-PI Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Oakdale, CA
 B. Orland, CA
 C. Porterville, CA
 D. Raymond, CA
 E. Sanger, CA
 F. Smartville, CA
 G. Valley Springs, CA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4
5


conditions
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Are you willing and able to work an assigned shift to meet work requirements?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Student Trainee (Park Ranger) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-03: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Student Trainee (Park Ranger) at the GS-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of post-high school study AND am enrolled in a degree program. You must provide college transcripts to support educational claims.
 My education is not reflected in any of the choices above.


2.
GS-04: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Student Trainee (Park Ranger) at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have completed 2 full academic years of post-high school study or an associate's degree AND am accepted/enrolled in a 4-year degree program. You must provide college transcripts to support educational claims.
 My education is not reflected in any of the choices above.


3.
GS-05: Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this Student Trainee (Park Ranger) at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. You must provide college transcripts to support educational claims.

 I have completed four (4) academic years of post-high school leading to a bachelor's degree or equivalent degree AND am accepted/enrolled in a post-graduate program.
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes your most current cumulative grade point average (GPA).
 I have a GPA of 4.0 on a 4-point scale (or equivalent).
 I have a GPA between 3.5 and 3.99 on a 4-point scale (or equivalent).
 I have a GPA between 3.0 and 3.499 on a 4-point scale (or equivalent).
 I have a GPA between 2.5 and 2.99 on a 4-point scale (or equivalent).
 I have a GPA of 2.499 or less on a 4-point scale (or equivalent).


5.
Select the option below which most closely describes your academic relevance.
 I am a current student enrolled in an academic program such as Outdoor Recreation Management, Public Affairs, Natural Resource Management, Park Administration, Environmental Sciences, Criminal Justice, Forestry, Geology, Botany, Natural History, or Ecology. Note: Your College or University must be accredited by one of the accrediting agencies or associations recognized by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education. (You must attach a copy of your transcript or proof of enrollment).
 I am a current student enrolled in an academic program NOT described above. I do not meet the requirements of this Pathways Program position.
 I am NOT a current student enrolled in an academic program. I do not meet the requirements of the Pathways Program.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙