Position Title
Therapeutic Medical Physicist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12976119-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - The basic requirements for employment as a Therapeutic Medical Physicist within the VHA are prescribed by the Therapeutic Medical Physicist-Qualification Standard-GS-0601-14. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a TMP on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualifications requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Therapeutic Medical Physicist-Qualification Standard-0601 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


1.
Citizenship Requirement: Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes, I am a U.S. citizen.
 No, I am not a U.S. citizen, but I understand non-citizens may be considered if it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens for this position.


2.
English Language Proficiency Requirement:  Are you proficient in both spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d)?  

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English.


3.
Education Requirement: Do you possess a Master's degree or higher in a physics, science, or engineering discipline recognized by an accredited college or university (or an equivalent foreign degree evaluated by NACES)?

Note: Transcripts are required.
 Yes, and my degree includes at least 30 semester hours in one or more of the following fields: medical physics, health physics, radiological science, physics, engineering, chemistry, or biology. (Transcripts Required
 No, I do not meet this educational requirement.


4.
Board Certification Requirement: Are you currently board certified in the field of therapeutic medical physics by an approved certifying body, holding a current certificate, and abiding by the certifying body's continuing education requirements?  

 Yes, I am currently board certified by the American Board of Radiology (ABR) in one of the following fields: Therapeutic Medical Physics, Therapeutic Radiologic/Radiological Physics, or Radiologic/Radiological Physics.
 Yes, I am currently board certified by the American Board of Medical Physics (ABMP) in the subfield of Radiation Oncology Physics.
 Yes, I am currently board certified by the Canadian College of Physicists in Medicine (CCPM) in the subfield of Radiation Oncology Physics.
 No, I do not hold a current board certification from any of the approved certifying bodies listed above.


5.
Full-Performance Level Eligibility (GS-14): The provided text states that temporary appointments for non-board certified "board eligible" candidates only apply at the GS-12 entry level, and that candidates at or above the full performance level must be board certified.

Given that this is a GS-14 position at or above the full performance level, do you meet the mandatory certification requirement for this grade level?  

 Yes, I am fully board certified by an approved certifying body as required for grade levels at or above the full performance level.
 No, I am not board certified (e.g., I am "board eligible" or a graduate TMP), and I understand that the non-board certified exception does not apply to this GS-14 position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
The GS-14 Advanced Level Therapeutic Medical Physicist: position requires the independent performance of higher-level duties consisting of significant scope, complexity, and range of variety at least 25% of the time, backed by at least 1 year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level. Candidates must also demonstrate advanced knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) across the following four domains:
Advanced expertise and experience in the safe and efficient use of all radiotherapy devices for external beam radiotherapy and brachytherapy.
Highly developed expertise with commissioning linear accelerators and treatment planning systems for complex clinical use, including project management, performance testing, data acquisition, beam modeling, and validation testing.
Advanced knowledge (treatment simulation, planning, dosimetry, and treatment methods) of the scientific, clinical, and technical applications of one or more specialized procedures (including, but not limited to, HDR/LDR brachytherapy, SRS/SBRT, IMRT, VMAT, total body irradiation, advanced image-guided therapy, and adaptive therapy).
Advanced expertise in acceptance testing, clinical commissioning, and (when applicable) calibration procedures for a variety of ancillary radiation oncology delivery, imaging, dosimetry, metrology, and computational systems.

Do you possess at least 1 year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level, routinely perform these complex assignments independently at least 25% of your time, and possess demonstrated advanced expertise in ALL four KSA domains listed above?

 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Understanding: Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙