Position Title
Executive Assistant - COLLEGE GRADUATE
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO-OCAO-26-12935538-CG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


5.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This position is being filled as a College Graduate under Public Law 115-232, 5 CFR 315.614 (i). Applicants must meet the BASIC REQUIREMENTS of the College Graduate authority.


1.
Education Requirement (GS-007/09): Select the appropriate response that describes the education requirement you possess for this position:
 I am a recent graduate who has completed a bachelor's or graduate degree within the previous two years - OR - I am a uniformed service members who has completed a bachelor's or graduate degree and was unable to apply within two years of obtaining a degree due to a uniformed service obligation of at least four years, and may apply within two years of discharge from uniformed service.
 I do not meet the minimum education requirement as described above.


In addition to meeting the BASIC REQUIREMENTS, applicants must also meet the specialized experience that has equipped applicants with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the federal service.


2.
Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped applicants with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the federal service. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Executive Assistant at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent in the federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service which includes: Experience performing daily administrative and office management duties to support senior level management, establishing and maintaining files; and screening and routing incoming correspondence.
 I have 1 academic year of graduate education in a related field of study such as: business administration, public administration or other administrative and management fields
 I have Superior Academic Achievement may be met by having a Bachelor's degree, with one of the following: A GPA of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study, or a GPA of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies
 Equivalent combination of qualifying graduate education and experience.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements.


3.
Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped applicants with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the federal service. Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Executive Assistant at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent in the federal service.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the federal service which includes: Experience managing calendars for senior level management, arranging travel orders or making travel arrangements to include preparing briefings, handbooks, reports, forms, and formal correspondence.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree (i.e., business administration, public administration or other administrative and management fields).
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a graduate degree in a related field of study (i.e., business administration, public administration or other administrative and management fields).
 I have an LL. B or JD if related (i.e., business administration, public administration or other administrative and management fields)
 Equivalent combination of qualifying graduate education and experience.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙