Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
328-26-MW-13006839-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Newark, NJ


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11, position with Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Basic Requirement/Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR). This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) that must be met in addition to the Time-in-Grade and regular Specialized Experience qualifications.  This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for this vacancy. In order to qualify, candidates must have the following:


1.

Specialized Experierence: To be eligible for this position, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.
Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization.
Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.
Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization.
Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
OR

Graduate Education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. For some positions in this series graduate education may not provide the knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience may be required for such positions. One full academic year of graduate-level education is creditable for GS-7; 2 years or a master's or equivalent graduate degree is creditable for GS-9; and 3 years or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree is creditable for GS-11.

OR

Combination of Education & Experience: If you do not fully meet the length of experience and education described for a specific grade level (e.g. have six months of experience and some coursework but not a degree), the two can be combined to total 100% of the requirement.)

From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for the position of Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11 position. 


 

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or successful completion of three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree that involves a major study in public administration, business, administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. (You must provide transcripts)
 I have a combination of experience as described in A and education as described in B above.
 I do not possess experience and/or substitutable education to qualify for this position.


Time in Grade Requirement:Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent VA appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50. Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time-in-grade.


2.
Time-In-Grade requirement for Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11; From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your time-in-grade:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher or I have held the GS-11 or higher grade.
 I do not have at least 52 weeks of time in the GS-09 grade level or at a higher grade.


Specialized Experience:The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


3.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as:
Experience developing and interpreting administrative policies and requirements and reviewing the work of other team members.
Experience assisting with any facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects; and analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs.
Experience with the renovation of existing office space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, and/or minor construction, etc. 
Experience administering government regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, and/or security standards which can be gained through such activities as conducting safety and/or security inspections, assisting or monitoring a safety and/or security program, and/or identifying and/or resolving safety and/or security deficiencies.
experience analyzing use of space and facilities, safety and/or security inspections, and/or minor construction budgets, etc. and advising management accordingly.
Experience in property management, inventory of supplies and/or equipment, procurement of supplies and/or equipment, and/or vehicle management, etc.
Experience in administration and management of an identity card program, to include, cardstock inventory management, card issuance, administrative oversight of role-holders, and issuing cards, as necessary.       
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the position of Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11 position. 
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level as described above.
 I do not possess experience to qualify for this position.


Verification Statement:Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this application questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this application questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙