Position Title
Auditor
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
OIG-26-13039831 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets one of the following Merit Promotion eligibilities:
Current career or career-conditional federal employee applying for a PROMOTION or TRANSFER to a position with a higher grade or pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
Former career or career-conditional federal employee with "Status" applying for REINSTATEMENT to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?
Note: Also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy. Visit USAJOBS for more information on eligibility.

If you are separated from Federal Government employment, you may obtain a copy of your SF-50 via the Federal Records Center, National Archives and Records Administration.

Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as a status applicant and/or reinstatement eligible?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets one of the following non-competitive eligibilities:
Current career or career-conditional federal employee applying for REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, REPROMOTION, or TRANSFER, and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade or pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
Former career or career-conditional federal employee with status, applying for REINSTATEMENT, and you previously held a position with the same grade or pay band or higher, and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?
Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy. Visit USAJOBS for more information on eligibility.

If you were separated from Federal Government employment, you may obtain a copy of your SF-50 via the Federal Records Center, National Archives and Records Administration.

Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as a non-competitive or reinstatement eligible? *
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you claim veterans' preference? 

A. No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
B. 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
C. 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
D. 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
E. 10-point preference based on a compensable service-connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
F. 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran(XP)
G. 10-point preference based on a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)

Check the required documents section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
When the NSF OIG completes its hiring, the resumes of the remaining qualified candidates may be shared with additional federal agencies. Please opt in here if you would like your name, application materials, and assessment results shared so you can be considered for employment with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

Do you provide your consent to having your name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies that are hiring for similar positions?
 Yes, I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 No, I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


Assessment 1
1.
The 0511 Auditing job series has the following education and/or experience requirements. Below outlines the qualification requirements, as prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management. In order to be considered for the position, please select one of the options below:
 Degree: accounting, auditing, or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.
 Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: - Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; - A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or - Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I am currently in school, and do not yet meet these requirements, but I will within the next year.
 I do not meet these requirements


Assessment 2
1.

The U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) Office of Inspector General (OIG)'s Headquarters is located in Alexandria, Virginia. 

There are no relocation expenses associated with this vacancy announcement, and the selectee is expected to report to the office full-time, in accordance with the Presidential Memorandum, Return to In-Person Work, issued on January 20, 2025. Exceptions may be made for those with medical disabilities through the reasonable accommodation program. 

Please acknowledge one of the following:

 I currently reside IN the DC-Maryland-Virginia area, and acknowledge the full-time, in-person work requirement.
 I currently reside OUTSIDE the DC-Maryland-Virginia area, and acknowledge the full-time, in-person work requirement. I understand that I will be expected to relocate to the DC-Maryland-Virginia area at my own expense.
 I currently reside IN the DC-Maryland-Virginia area, and am unwilling or unable to meet the full-time, in-person work requirement. I understand this will remove me from further consideration. (NOTE: Do not select this if you have a medical disability for which you may qualify for an accommodation.
 I currently reside OUTSIDE the DC-Maryland-Virginia area, and am unwilling or unable to relocate at this time. I understand this will remove me from further consideration.
 I have questions, and would like to discuss this with HR.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙