Position Title
Construction Control Representative
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12901697-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Mar 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more OR
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, as follows:

• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of discharge; member 4 copy of the DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); AND
• A copy of a letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs, dated 1991 or later, certifying an OVERALL Service Connected Disability of 30% or more; OR
• DD Form 214, which reflects the character of service of "Retirement-Disability"; OR
• Certification document* which reflects your OVERALL service connected disability of 30% or more.
• The Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference is optional at the time of application.

The "certification" letter is a written document on an official letterhead of the appropriate military branch in which the veteran served, and contains at a minimum, the service member's: (1) military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; (2) expected character of service (i.e. honorable); (3) rank; and (4) type of discharge. The "certification" must be signed by, or by direction of, the adjutant, military personnel officer, or commander of the service member's unit or higher headquarters. The service member's military service dates are necessary in order to determine whether he or she meets the definition of ''veteran'' under 5 U.S.C. 2108(1) (Federal Register, 2016).

Useful Links

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.
You can obtain a copy of your DD-214 from the National Archives.
Standard Form (SF) 15, Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Veterans Employment
U.S. Department of Labor's Veterans' Preference Advisor

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a 30% or more Disabled Veteran?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


7.
People with Disabilities, Schedule A

You are eligible for this appointing authority if you are an individual:
with an intellectual disability; OR
a severe physical disability; OR
a psychiatric impairment; AND
you have acceptable proof of the disability.
Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility (e.g., records, statements, or other appropriate information) issued by:
a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional duly certified by a State, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory, to practice medicine); or,
a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (State or private); or,
a Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits.
**Note: An agency may make permanent or time-limited appointments under this appointing authority.

For more information please go to OPM's website on Federal Employment of People with Disabilities.

Are you eligible under a Schedule A, Persons with Disability appointment?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Barksdale AFB, LA
 B. Fort Polk, LA
 C. Corpus Christi, TX
 D. Edinburg, TX
 E. Fort Bliss, TX
 F. Fort Hood, TX
 G. McAllen, TX
 H. Red River Army Depot, TX
 I. San Antonio, TX


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a CONSTRUCTION CONTROL REPRESENTATIVE with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Construction Control Representative at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Monitor major civil/military projects such as conventional buildings of all types of barracks complexes, family housing, hospitals, warehouse complex, hangars etc.; AND 2) Interpreting engineering and architect plans and/or specifications. AND 3) Perform related administrative work such as daily reports, pay, or construction progress/delays for review.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as in engineering, construction, or industrial technology. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
1.
You are reviewing a contractor's proposed 18-month schedule for a new barracks complex. The schedule shows concrete foundation work starting in December, but historical weather data indicates a 40% chance of freezing temperatures that could delay curing. The contractor's schedule has no weather contingency built in, and the project has a firm occupancy deadline for incoming personnel in June. The contractor argues their accelerated timeline is necessary to meet budget constraints.

 Approve the schedule but require daily weather monitoring and pre-approved cold-weather concrete procedures to be implemented when temperatures drop below 40°F
 Approve the current schedule since the contractor has accepted responsibility for meeting deadlines and budget constraints, but document your concerns in writing
 Require the contractor to revise the schedule with weather contingencies and alternative cold-weather concrete methods, while identifying specific milestone adjustments that maintain the June deadline
 Reject the schedule entirely and require all concrete work to be postponed until spring, regardless of the impact on the June occupancy deadline
 Request the contractor provide a detailed risk analysis of winter concrete work and backup scheduling options before making a final decision on schedule approval


2.
During your daily site inspection of a hospital construction project, you discover that the contractor has encountered unexpected underground utilities that were not shown on the original plans. Work has stopped in that area, and the contractor is requesting direction. The utilities appear to be active electrical lines serving an adjacent building. The contractor suggests they can work around them, but this would require significant design modifications. The project is already two weeks behind schedule.

 Allow the contractor to continue work in unaffected areas while you investigate the utility situation and determine the best course of action for the affected zone
 Immediately halt work in the affected area, coordinate with utility companies to verify line status and ownership, then compile comprehensive site data for a formal contract modification recommendation
 Accept the contractor's work-around proposal since they are the construction experts, but require additional safety measures and documentation of the changes
 Document the discovery thoroughly, require the contractor to submit a detailed work-around proposal, and coordinate with the design team to evaluate modification options
 Direct the contractor to relocate the utilities themselves since they are responsible for site conditions and meeting the project schedule


3.
A contractor working on an airfield paving project has submitted a request for a contract modification due to unsuitable soil conditions discovered during excavation. Their proposal includes additional materials, extended timeline, and increased costs totaling $2.3 million. You have compiled field data showing the soil conditions, but the contractor's cost estimates seem high compared to similar modifications on other projects. The runway must be operational for an important military exercise in four months.

 Deny the modification request and require the contractor to find alternative methods that work within the original contract terms and budget
 Accept that modification is necessary based on field conditions, but require the contractor to provide detailed cost breakdowns and justification for all proposed changes
 Review the contractor's proposal with your supervisor, verify the field conditions warrant modification, and negotiate specific cost elements that appear excessive
 Analyze the field data against contract specifications, research comparable modification costs, and prepare a detailed recommendation that addresses both technical requirements and cost reasonableness
 Recommend approval of the modification since the field conditions clearly require changes and the operational deadline cannot be missed


4.
During your review of a contractor's quality control program for a family housing project, you notice their concrete testing frequency is below the specification requirements. When questioned, the contractor's quality control manager states they are following industry standards and that additional testing is unnecessary expense. The concrete work is progressing rapidly, and increased testing would slow the schedule. You have observed that the concrete appears to be of good quality visually.

 Require immediate compliance with contract specifications for testing frequency, document the deficiency, and verify that all previously placed concrete meets acceptance criteria through additional testing
 Approve the reduced testing frequency since the concrete appears acceptable and maintaining the construction schedule is important for project success
 Accept the contractor's position that industry standards are adequate but require them to document their quality control procedures more thoroughly
 Allow completion of the current concrete placement but require full specification compliance for all future work, with documentation of the agreement
 Meet with the contractor to discuss the specification requirements, establish a corrective action plan with increased testing, and monitor compliance closely going forward


5.
You are conducting a safety meeting with government and contractor personnel on a warehouse complex project. The contractor's safety officer reports that workers have been observed not wearing hard hats in certain areas, claiming the work doesn't require them. OSHA regulations clearly require hard hats in construction zones. The contractor's superintendent argues that productivity is being affected by overly strict safety enforcement and that experienced workers should be trusted to assess their own risk.

 Allow experienced workers some discretion in low-risk areas but require strict compliance in high-risk zones, with clear documentation of the different requirements
 Clarify the safety requirements with all personnel, require the contractor to post visible safety reminders, and increase your oversight of safety compliance in all work areas
 Reinforce that OSHA compliance is mandatory regardless of worker experience, establish clear consequences for violations, and require the contractor to implement additional safety training and monitoring
 Work with the contractor to identify specific areas where hard hat requirements may be unclear and develop written clarifications for all safety protocols
 Focus safety enforcement only on areas where inspectors are present since worker productivity and morale are important factors in project success


6.
While reviewing a contractor's payment estimate for a missile testing facility project, you discover discrepancies between the reported quantities of structural steel installed and your field inspection records. The contractor's records show 15% more steel placed than your measurements indicate. The contractor's project manager insists their measurements are correct and suggests your inspection methods may be inadequate. This is the third month with similar discrepancies.

 Implement daily quantity verification procedures, require the contractor to provide detailed installation records, and recommend payment approval only for verified quantities
 Schedule a meeting with the contractor to review measurement procedures and establish agreed-upon methods for future quantity verification
 Conduct a comprehensive joint measurement with the contractor using standardized procedures, document all findings, and require resolution of discrepancies before approving any payment estimates
 Accept the contractor's quantities for this payment but implement closer monitoring for future estimates to prevent continued discrepancies
 Approve the payment estimate since measurement differences are common in construction and the overall project progress appears satisfactory


7.
A contractor on a hospital construction project has proposed using a different type of fire-rated door assembly than specified in the contract. Their proposed doors meet the same fire rating requirements but use a different manufacturer and installation method. The contractor argues their doors are superior quality and less expensive, potentially saving the government money. However, the specifications clearly identify the approved manufacturer and model. The contractor is requesting your interpretation of whether their alternative meets contract requirements.

 Inform the contractor that specifications require the identified manufacturer unless formal substitution procedures are followed, but offer to expedite the review process
 Approve the contractor's proposal immediately since they are offering superior quality at lower cost, which clearly benefits the project
 Allow the substitution since the fire rating is equivalent and the cost savings benefit the government, but require documentation of the decision
 Review the contract specifications for substitution procedures, evaluate whether the proposed doors meet all performance requirements, and provide a written interpretation that addresses both compliance and proper approval processes
 Require the contractor to submit a formal substitution request with technical documentation proving equivalency, then coordinate with the design team for approval


8.
During a routine inspection of a dam modification project, you observe that the contractor's workforce appears to have fewer minority workers than required by the contract's equal employment opportunity provisions. When you raise this concern, the contractor's representative states they hire the most qualified applicants regardless of demographics and that they are meeting all legal requirements. You need to determine if their employment practices comply with contract provisions.

 Focus on construction quality rather than employment issues since the contractor states they are meeting legal requirements and this is not your primary responsibility
 Review the contractor's employment records against contract requirements, document your findings, and coordinate with appropriate compliance officers to ensure all labor law obligations are met
 Request the contractor provide detailed employment data and documentation of their recruitment efforts to verify compliance with equal employment opportunity requirements
 Accept the contractor's statement about hiring qualified applicants but document your observations and continue monitoring workforce composition
 Schedule a meeting with the contractor to discuss equal employment opportunity requirements and establish monitoring procedures for ongoing compliance


9.
A contractor working on a barracks complex has requested clarification on concrete curing requirements. The specifications state "maintain adequate moisture for proper curing," but don't specify exact methods. The contractor wants to use a new curing compound instead of traditional wet curing methods. They claim the new compound is more effective and faster, but you are unfamiliar with this specific product. The concrete work is on the critical path for project completion.

 Approve the new curing compound since the contractor claims it is superior and the schedule pressure requires efficient methods
 Research the proposed curing compound against industry standards and specification requirements, consult with materials engineers if necessary, and provide a written interpretation based on contract compliance
 Allow the contractor to proceed with traditional wet curing methods while you investigate whether the proposed compound meets specification intent
 Reject any deviation from traditional curing methods since the specifications don't explicitly allow alternatives, regardless of potential benefits
 Require the contractor to provide technical data on the curing compound and demonstrate that it meets or exceeds the performance requirements of traditional methods


10.
You are directing a team of three inspectors and two technicians on a utility systems project. One of your senior inspectors has been consistently arriving late and submitting incomplete daily reports. This inspector has 15 years of experience and argues that their field knowledge compensates for administrative shortcomings. Other team members are beginning to question the fairness of different standards. The project requires detailed documentation for regulatory compliance.

 Reassign some of the inspector's administrative duties to other team members while utilizing their field expertise where it provides the most value
 Overlook the administrative issues since the inspector's field experience is valuable and focus on ensuring other team members maintain proper documentation
 Meet privately with the inspector to discuss the importance of complete documentation, provide additional support if needed, and monitor improvement while maintaining team morale
 Continue to rely on the inspector's experience for critical decisions but assign a technician to assist with report completion and administrative tasks
 Address the performance issues directly with the inspector, establish clear expectations and consequences, and ensure consistent standards are applied to all team members while maintaining project documentation requirements


11.
While preparing your daily activity report for a hangar construction project, you must document several significant events: the contractor received conflicting instructions from two different government representatives, weather delayed concrete work by four hours, and an equipment breakdown stopped steel erection for half a day. The contractor is requesting clarification on which instructions to follow and wants to claim weather and equipment delays as excusable. Your report will be used for potential contract modifications and schedule adjustments.

 Minimize documentation of the conflicting instructions to avoid creating problems between government representatives, but thoroughly document the weather and equipment delays
 Prepare a comprehensive report of all issues, accept the contractor's delay claims at face value, and recommend immediate schedule adjustments to prevent further problems
 Document the events factually, focus on resolving the instruction conflict quickly, and note that delay impacts will need further analysis by project management
 Record all incidents thoroughly with supporting details, coordinate with other government representatives to resolve instruction conflicts, and note the potential impact on project schedule
 Document all events with specific times, personnel involved, and impacts; clarify the conflicting instructions immediately; and provide objective analysis of delay causes and their relationship to contract requirements


12.
You are reviewing plans and specifications for a proposed roads and bridges project before construction begins. You notice that the specified bridge foundation depth may be insufficient based on recent geotechnical data, and the access road alignment appears to conflict with an existing utility easement that wasn't noted in the original survey. The contractor is scheduled to begin mobilization next week, and any changes will impact the project schedule and budget.

 Raise your concerns with the contractor during the pre-construction conference and rely on their expertise to identify and resolve any actual conflicts during construction
 Document your observations and recommend that construction proceed in areas not affected by these potential issues while the conflicts are investigated and resolved
 Approve the plans as submitted since they have been reviewed by design professionals, but monitor construction closely to address any problems that arise
 Contact the design team to discuss your concerns, request additional geotechnical analysis for the bridge foundation, and verify the utility easement status before approving construction start
 Immediately coordinate with design engineers and survey teams to verify the potential conflicts, document your findings with supporting data, and recommend resolution before construction begins


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙