Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Planning) (GIS)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSDHA-26-13058782-GC-H Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required documentation as part of my resume/application.


7.
Prior Primary Wildland Firefighting Experience - Applicants for this position must possess knowledge of the principles, methods, and techniques of wildland firefighting as demonstrated by direct primary wildland firefighting experience. To receive credit, you must provide a written description of your experience of wildland firefighting in your resume. The substitution of education for primary wildland fire experience will not satisfy or meet this requirement.
Please select one response below to indicate whether you meet this mandatory requirement:
 I have at least one fire season of experience in a primary wildland firefighting role. This means I have worked directly on the fireline performing tasks such as containing, controlling, suppressing, or managing wildland fires. This experience may come from serving in a permanent, temporary, seasonal, or comparable private-sector, Tribal or other government role on an Engine Crew, Fire Effects Crew, Prescribed Fire/Fuels Crew, Hand Crew, Helitack Crew, Hotshot Crew, Smokejumpers, Wildland Fire Module, or Fire Suppression Crew, etc. This experience has been documented in my work history/experience blocks on my resume.
 I have at least at least 14-days of on-the-ground fireline experience (cumulative or consecutive) as described in A above and this experience has been documented in my work history/experience blocks on my resume.
 I do not possess any of the experience listed in items A or B.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


8.
My resume contains the beginning and ending dates (month/year to month/year) and grade level (if federal service) for each period of work experience/employment and I have listed my work as Full-Time, Part-Time and have included hours per week worked. I understand failure to adequately include this information may affect my qualification determination for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I qualify for the GW-12 level because:
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-11 level in the Federal Service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position and my resume reflects this.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above. I do not qualify for this grade level.


2.
Prior Primary Wildland Firefighting Experience - Applicants for this position must possess knowledge of the principles, methods, and techniques of wildland firefighting as demonstrated by direct primary wildland firefighting experience. To receive credit, you must provide a written description of your experience of wildland firefighting in your resume. The substitution of education for primary wildland fire experience will not satisfy or meet this requirement.

Please select one response below to indicate whether you meet this mandatory requirement:
 I have at least one fire season of experience in a primary wildland firefighting role. This means I have worked directly on the fireline performing tasks such as containing, controlling, suppressing, or managing wildland fires. This experience may come from serving in a permanent, temporary, seasonal, or comparable privatesector, Tribal or other government role on an Engine Crew, Fire Effects Crew, Prescribed Fire/Fuels Crew, Hand Crew, Helitack Crew, Hotshot Crew, Smokejumpers, Wildland Fire Module, or Fire Suppression Crew, etc.  This experience has been documented in my work history/experience blocks on my resume.
 I have at least at least 14-days of on-the-ground fireline experience (cumulative or consecutive) as described in A above and this experience has been documented in my work history/experience blocks on my resume.
 I do not possess the wildland firefighting experience described above in A or B.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires you to operate light vehicles and 4x4 vehicles and possess a current valid State Driver's License.

 Yes, I have a current valid State Driver's License or can obtain one within 30 days if hired.
 No, I do not have a current valid State Driver’s License, nor can I obtain one within 30 days if hired. I am not eligible for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙