Position Title
General Engineer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-26-12996592-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Silver Spring, MD
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Fort Worth, TX
 D. Salt Lake City, UT


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes how you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Professional Engineering Position Series, 0800.

 DEGREE: I have a bachelor's or higher degree in professional Engineering from a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). NOTE: You must provide a copy of your transcripts.
 DEGREE: I have a bachelor's or higher degree in professional Engineering from an accredited college or university. The course curriculum included differential & integral calculus & courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following areas of engineering science or physics: a. statics, dynamics; b. strength of materials (stress/strain); c. fluid mechanics & hydraulics; d. thermodynamics; e. electrical fields & circuits; f. nature & properties of materials; or g. any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics. NOTE: You must provide a copy of your transcripts.
 PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION OR LICENSURE: I have a combination of education and experience: college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by PROFESSIONAL REGISTRATION OR LICENSURE: Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions.) NOTE: You must provide a copy of your transcripts, registration, license and/or other supporting documentation.
 WRITTEN TEST: I have a combination of education and experience: college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by WRITTEN TEST: Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. NOTE: You must provide a copy of your transcripts, certificate and/or other supporting documentation.
 SPECIFIED ACADEMIC COURSES: I have a combination of education and experience: college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by SPECIFIED ACADEMIC COURSES: Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses from an accredited college or university in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in response B above (see Qualifications section). NOTE: You must provide a copy of your transcripts.
 RELATED CURRICULUM: I have a combination of education and experience: college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by RELATED CURRICULUM: Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, AND at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. (Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) NOTE: You must provide a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Professional Engineering Positions Series, 0800.


2.
Do you have a have a professional registration as an architect or engineer? (Your Application Materials MUST include a copy of your professional registration as an architect or engineer. Failure to do so will result in your application being marked as ineligible.)

 Yes, I have a professional registration as an architect or engineer.
 No, I do not possess a professional registration as an architect or engineer.


3.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a General Engineer, GS-0801-14 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting with a deferred maintenance program; and Overseeing the repair, replacement, and relocation of facilities and equipment of operational offices.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙