Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator (Special Agent in Charge)
Agency
Office of Inspector General for the Federal Housing Finance Agency
Announcement Number
26-FHFA OIG-12977865 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current FHFA-OIG employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current FHFA-OIG employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current FHFA-OIG employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently hold (or have you previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicant's 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.

If you are not subject to the age restriction because you have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above, you must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement. OR If you are not subject to the age restriction because you are a preference eligible veteran, you must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.

Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?
 I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close of this announcement.
 I am not subject to the age restriction because I served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position as described above.
 I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.
 I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.


5.
Medical Requirements: The selectee must pass a pre-appointment physical examination and meet the physical requirements for this position as required by this agency. The duties of positions in this series require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision in each eye, with or without correction, is required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Near vision, corrective lenses permitted, must be sufficient to read printed material the size of typewritten characters. Hearing loss, as measured by an audiometer, must not exceed 35 decibels at 1000, 2000, and 3000 Hz levels. Since the duties of these positions are exacting and responsible, and involve activities under trying conditions, applicants must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the applicant to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.

Do you meet the physical requirements as described above?
 Yes, I possess the requirements listed above.
 I do not possess the requirements listed above.


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Chicago, IL
 D. Saint Louis, MO
 E. Newark, NJ


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


3.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Incumbents selected for Criminal Investigator positions are covered under special law enforcement provisions. This requires that applicants not exceed the maximum age for entry. The date immediately preceding an applicant's 37th birthday is the final date for selection. The age restriction does not apply if you served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position covered by special civil service retirement provisions, including early or mandatory retirement.


1.
Will you have reached your 37th birthday by the closing date of this announcement?
 I will NOT have reached my 37th birthday by the close date of this announcement.
 I am not subject to the age restriction because I am serving or have previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement officer (FLEO) position.
 I will be 37 or older by the close date of this announcement. I am not a preference eligible veteran and have not previously served in a Federal civilian (not military) law enforcement (FLEO) position.
 I am a preference eligible veteran and am not subject to the requirements above.


You must submit an SF 50 (or equivalent documentation) showing service in a covered civilian law enforcement.


You must submit appropriate veterans documentation to establish that you are eligible for veteran's preference in order to waive the age requirements for this position.


Medical Requirements:

The duties of positions in this series require moderate to arduous physical exertion involving walking and standing, use of firearms, and exposure to inclement weather. Manual dexterity with comparatively free motion of finger, wrist, elbow, shoulder, hip, and knee joints is required. Arms, hands, legs, and feet must be sufficiently intact and functioning in order that applicants may perform the duties satisfactorily. Sufficiently good vision in each eye, with or without correction, is required to perform the duties satisfactorily. Near vision, corrective lenses permitted, must be sufficient to read printed material the size of typewritten characters. Hearing loss, as measured by an audiometer, must not exceed 35 decibels at 1000, 2000, and 3000 Hz levels. Since the duties of these positions are exacting and responsible, and involve activities under trying conditions, applicants must possess emotional and mental stability. Any physical condition that would cause the applicant to be a hazard to himself/herself, or others is disqualifying.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you meet ALL of the physical requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


Specialized experience: For the EL-15 you must have one year of experience at the EL/GS-14 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position as listed above and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience must include:

- Experience enforcing the laws and regulations put in place by Title 18 of the US Criminal Code which involved working with Assistant US Attorneys and testifying before Grand Juries.; AND
- Experience supervising or overseeing and coordinating on-going investigations (i.e., criminal, civil and administrative) of government or organizational programs and operations where complex financial or mortgage-related fraud is committed against and by financial institutions, public or private individuals, or corporations/entities.; AND
- Experience providing direction and making recommendations to teams, ensuring documentation is accurate and updated to include making sure the regulations, laws and agency policies have been followed.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have one year of experience at the EL/GS-14 level, or equivalent, enforcing the laws and regulations put in place by Title 18 of the US Criminal Code which involved working with Assistant US Attorneys and testifying before Grand Juries?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one year of experience at the EL-14 level, or equivalent, supervising or overseeing and coordinating on-going investigations (i.e., criminal, civil and administrative) of government or organizational programs and operations where complex financial or mortgage-related fraud is committed against and by financial institutions, public or private individuals, or corporations/entities?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have one year of experience at the EL-14 level, or equivalent, providing direction and making recommendations to teams, ensuring documentation is accurate and updated to include making sure the regulations, laws and agency policies have been followed.
 Yes
 No


For the EL-14 you must have one year of experience at the EL/GS-13 level, or equivalent, that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes:

- Conducting multi-agency and/or national organization criminal investigations involving sensitive or complex mortgage or loan related frauds where fraud is committed against and by financial institutions; AND
- Providing direction and assistance to teams on investigative findings and making recommendations as to appropriate action to be taken.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Have you conducted multi-agency and/or national organization criminal investigations involving sensitive or complex mortgage or loan related frauds where fraud is committed against and by financial institutions?
 Yes
 No


7.
Have you provided direction and assistance to teams on investigative findings, and made recommendations as to appropriate action to be taken?
 Yes
 No


8.
Select all of the law enforcement activities with which you have experience.
 A. Making arrests
 B. Conducting physical surveillance
 C. Conducting consensual monitoring or other electronic surveillance
 D. Drafting affidavits in support of arrest or search warrants, or criminal complaints
 E. Performing interrogations/subject interviews
 F. Participating in the execution of search warrants
 G. Conducting undercover operations
 H. Conducting operations using confidential informants
 I. Drafting and serving Inspector General subpoenas
 J. Conducting employee misconduct investigations
 K. Conducting fraud investigations
 L. Conducting mortgage or securities related fraud investigations
 M. Conducting bank fraud investigations
 N. Conducting bribery or public corruption investigations
 O. Conducting investigations in which Title III wiretaps are utilized
 P. Testifying in court
 Q. None of the above


9.
Choose all of the statements that apply to you regarding the types of investigations you have been involved with as well as have either supervised or led an investigative team (in the event you are interviewed, you may be asked to provide an example of each).
 A. Criminal investigation (leading to prosecution)
 B. Civil investigation (leading to litigation)
 C. Administrative investigation (serious employee misconduct leading to discipline)
 D. Criminal, civil and/or administrative investigation (having 2 if not all 3 types of actions occurring in cases supervised or led)
 E. Undercover operation
 F. Complex (multi-program), high profile (Congressional, news media, or other public interest), involving key executives (senior governmental, contractor, or external entities integral to the Department/Agencys program or operation)
 G. Internal affairs cases or oversight of law enforcement, police or security
 H. Intelligence or National Security Community cases or oversight
 I. Federal cases
 J. Local, County, State, Tribal or International cases
 K. Seizures and/or Forfeitures
 L. Contractors and/or Grantees
 M. Suspensions and/or Debarments
 N. Private individuals and/or entities
 O. None of the above


10.
Select all of the following that apply to your knowledge and experience of systems and practices.
 A. Investigative Case Management System
 B. Semi-annual and Fiscal Year statistics
 C. Evidence Inventory
 D. US Courts PACER system
 E. National Criminal Information Center databases
 F. Treasury Enforcement Communication System
 G. National Law Enforcement Telecommunication system
 H. None of the above


11.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to conduct investigations of complex financial fraud such as mortgage related frauds, securities fraud, bank fraud and bankruptcy fraud.
 I have extensive experience conducting highly complex investigations such as bank, mortgage, securities, bankruptcy related frauds.
 I have experience conducting complex criminal financial fraud investigations.
 None of the above.


12.
Select the statement from the list below that best describes your highest level of related experience with program fraud, abuse, white collar, and general crime.
 I have experience working in an OIG, investigating allegations of criminal financial fraud, abuse, white-collar crime (e.g. mortgage fraud, securities fraud, bank fraud), that are complex and/or sensitive in nature and involved organizations with strong political impact, a high degree of visibility, or Congressional and Executive interest and have participated in major joint criminal investigations with other Federal law enforcement agencies.
 I have experience conducting, financial fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement investigations; experience conducting criminal investigations working with law enforcement agencies in combined operations investigations with other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies.ons investigations with other Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies.
 I have experience conducting complex criminal investigations.
 None of the above.


13.
Select the response that best describes your knowledge of law enforcement/criminal justice theories, techniques, procedures, and practices.
 I have conducted and coordinated all facets of complex criminal financial fraud investigations involving multi-jurisdictional and multi-defendant cases, or participated in major criminal investigations involving violations of United States Code Title 18.
 I have applied law enforcement techniques and procedures by serving as a Special Agent in undercover operations, surveillance, obtaining search warrants, and conducting searches.
 I have obtained search and seizure records at the Federal, State, or Local levels; made arrests of violators; and provided testimony as a witness before grand juries.
 None of the above.


14.
Choose the statement(s) that best describe your communication/briefing skills that you use as a regular part of your job to support agency goals and the agency leadership.
 A. I regularly communicate organizational strategies, goals, objectives, and priorities in oral presentations to various levels of stakeholders
 B. I explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations to managers and/or employees
 G. I represent my agency in meetings with third party individuals and/or organizations
 C. I brief managers on agency policy, goals, and objectives
 D. I defend or explain agency position(s) with external entities or third parties who perform oversight review of programs
 E. I foster cooperation and obtain consensus among groups in achieving agency goals
 F. I build consensus by collaborating with others to obtain information, achieve results, and accomplish goals
 H. None of the above


15.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in reporting to higher-level officials on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 I have reported primarily to my immediate supervisor, either formally or informally, on program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 I have given informal briefings to higher-level officials in the organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 I have given formal written reports and oral briefings to higher-level officials both within and outside my organization regarding program status and/or technical problems requiring resolution.
 None of the above.


16.
Select all of the verbal communication activities that you have routinely performed in your employment.
 A. Conducting law enforcement interviews
 B. Presenting criminal investigative findings to Assistant U.S. Attorneys
 C. Presenting investigative status and other investigative matters to senior agency officials
 D. Providing oral presentations
 E. Providing operational briefings to other members of a task force or raid team
 F. Providing advice, guidance, or direction to investigators of lower grades on regulations or procedures
 G. Serving as mediator in discussions between varying groups or individuals with opposing opinions and/or goals
 H. Testifying in court and/or administrative hearings
 I. None of the above


17.
Select all of the written products below that you have experience writing. In the event you are interviewed, you may be asked to provide a sample that supports your answer(s) to this question.
 A. Memoranda of Investigative Activities
 B. Reports of Investigation.
 C. Investigative work plans.
 D. Administrative reports to management.
 E. Proposals for undercover, surveillance, arrest, or search warrant operations.
 F. Responses to Congressional or other interagency inquiries
 G. Applications for approval for consensual monitoring.
 H. Applications for administrative/IG subpoenas.
 I. None of the above.


18.
Select all the following types of affidavits that you have written and submitted, sworn, and had approved, that resulted in arrests, seizures, indictments, or penalties.
 A. Search/seizure warrant affidavits.
 B. Criminal complaint affidavits.
 C. Arrest warrant affidavits.
 D. None of the above.


19.
Select all of the following types of interpersonal communication duties you have performed as a regular part of your job.
 A. Briefed Assistant United States Attorneys on Criminal Investigative activities in support of Title 18 investigations.
 B. Facilitated coordination of efforts between various Federal Law Enforcement Investigative Agencies.
 C. None of the above.


20.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill in establishing and maintaining effective working relations outside of the organization.
 I have maintained relationships with members of other work units within my organization who have diverse needs, assessed their needs, and provided moderately complex information to them. I have resolved fairly complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 I have developed and maintained relationships with interest groups with diverse needs, anticipated and assessed their needs, and provided complex information to them. I have resolved complex or non-routine problems, questions, or complaints.
 I have extensive experience working with the most highly visible and complex contacts and groups outside of the organization. These contacts involve extraordinarily sensitive, complex, and important cases, which are highly visible and draw Congressional and Executive interest.
 None of the above.


21.
Which one statement best describes your experience in providing guidance to subordinates or team members.
 I have completed formal supervisory education or training, but have not yet supervised criminal investigators on the job.
 I have supervised criminal investigators under close supervision by a supervisor or manager to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have supervised criminal investigators as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or manager.
 I am an expert in supervising criminal investigators in complex financial fraud investigations and I have supervised investigators or led a team of investigators in conducting complex financial fraud investigations.
 None of the above.


22.
Choose the statements below that describe your experience working with other law enforcement agencies. (Select all that apply)
 A. Conducting joint complex financial fraud investigations involving criminal violations of Title 18, United States Code, with other federal law enforcement agencies.
 B. Conducting joint criminal investigations with state or local law enforcement agencies
 C. Serving as a member of a federal criminal investigations task force.
 D. Serving as a formal agency liaison to another law enforcement agency or organization.
 E. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


23.
Have you served on multi-agency criminal investigative teams with responsibility for planning, managing, coordinating, and evaluating criminal investigative findings (Title 18, United States Code) and collection of facts and evidence involved in complex financial fraud such as mortgage, securities and bank fraud?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙