Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13024685-26-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration.

SPF for this position: You must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken Spanish?
 Yes. I am proficient in written and spoken Spanish.
 No. I am not proficient in written and spoken Spanish and I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position in Puerto Rico.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


1.
Please select your highest level of education and experience from the options below.

NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address.


You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred. In progress degrees are not eligible. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. We cannot make assumptions regarding your education.

 I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I have a Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I am a Foreign Graduate and possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license.
 I do not possess the required education and or experience required for this position.


2.
Do you possess a current National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) Certification as an Occupational Therapist?

 Yes, I am certified as an OT by the NBCOT. I have attached my active, valid cert.
 No, I am NOT currently certified as an OT by NBCOT. I am eligible for the GS-9 only and intend on being certified within the next two (2) years.
 No, I am NOT certified as an OT by NBCOT, and do NOT intend to seek certification.


3.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted license, to practice Occupational Therapy (OT) in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?

 Yes, I am fully licensed to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory, or commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia. I have attached my active valid licensure.
 No, I am NOT fully licensed. I am eligible for the GS-9 only and intend on being licensed within the next two (2) years.
 No, I am NOT fully licensed, NOR will I be able to obtain licensure within the next two (2) years and acknowledge my application may not receive further consideration.


4.
GS-9 Experience, Education, or Licensure: No post-educational experience, education, or licensure is required at the GS-9 level beyond the Basic Requirements.

Do you meet the Basic Requirements to be eligible to be appointed at the GS-9 level?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11 Experience -OR- Education, AND- Certification, AND- Licensure:
In addition to the Basic Requirements, an Occupational Therapist at the GS-11 level MUST be certified -AND- licensed, -AND- meet one (1) of the following GS-11 Grade Requirements:
Completed a minimum of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled; -OR-
Completed three (3) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field; -OR-
Possess a Doctorate in occupational therapy.
Do you possess the GS-11 Grade Requirements for Experience -OR- Education, -AND- Certification -AND- Licensure as annotated above?

 Yes, I meet the Basic Requirements, possess licensure AND certification, AND meet one (1) of the above GS-11 Grade Requirements.
 No, I do NOT meet ALL the GS-11 Grade Requirements.


6.
GS-12 Experience, -AND- Certification, -AND- Licensure:
In addition to the Basic Requirements, an Occupational Therapist at the full performance GS-12 level MUST be certified, -AND- licensed, -AND- possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level directly related to the position being filled.

Do you possess ALL the GS-12 Grade Requirements for Experience, -AND- Certification, -AND- Licensure?

 Yes, I am certified AND fully licensed as an OT and possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade.
 No, I do NOT possess ALL the required experience, education, or licensure to be appointed at the GS-12 level.


REMINDER - Current, permanent federal employees must recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: General adjustment/Cost of living Increase Within grade increases at the highest grade held Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year HPTs will need to submit SF-50s during their time period to receive credit for eligibility. Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted. Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Updated and accurate duties (be as detailed as possible) * Grade level (applicable for state or federal jobs) * Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙