Position Title
Administrative Support Assistant (Wildland Fire)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSDHA-26-12971376-LE-C Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Anchorage, AK
Fairbanks, AK
Fort Apache, AZ
Grand Canyon, AZ
Kingman, AZ
Parker, AZ
Phoenix, AZ
Safford, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Yuma, AZ
Alturas, CA
Bakersfield, CA
Bishop, CA
Crescent City, CA
El Dorado Hills, CA
Jamul, CA
Los Banos, CA
Marina, CA
Orick, CA
Redding, CA
Susanville, CA
Tulelake, CA
Ukiah, CA
Willows, CA
Canon City, CO
Craig, CO
Dolores, CO
Estes Park, CO
Gunnison, CO
Kremmling, CO
Lakewood, CO
Meeker, CO
Monte Vista, CO
Montrose, CO
Saint Marks, FL
Folkston, GA
Hawaii National Park, HI
Coeur d'Alene, ID
Marion, IL
Gary, IN
Wapello, IA
Pleasanton, KS
Bar Harbor, ME
Cambridge, MD
Bemidji, MN
Detroit Lakes, MN
Van Buren, MO
Billings, MT
Butte, MT
Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, MT
Fort Peck, MT
Glasgow, MT
Havre, MT
Lewistown, MT
Miles City, MT
Omaha, NE
Valentine, NE
Winnemucca, NV
Basking Ridge, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Carlsbad, NM
Dulce, NM
Farmington, NM
Las Cruces, NM
Mescalero, NM
Roswell, NM
San Juan Pueblo, NM
Taos, NM
Zuni, NM
Devils Lake, ND
Pingree, ND
Hines, OR
Lakeview, OR
Medford, OR
Prineville, OR
Springfield, OR
Vale, OR
Bushkill, PA
Hardeeville, SC
McBee, SC
Aberdeen, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Madison, SD
Cedar City, UT
Salt Lake City, UT
Vernal, UT
Burbank, WA
Spokane Valley, WA
Wenatchee, WA
Glen Jean, WV
Buffalo, WY
Casper, WY
Cody, WY
Lander, WY
Newcastle, WY
Pinedale, WY
Rawlins, WY
Rock Springs, WY
Worland, WY
Within 3 Geographic Areas, Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7


3.
Multiple positions will be placed in each of the established Geographic Areas (GAs) listed below for the US Wildland Fire Service. Candidates must use the linked map below to determine which GA they would like to be considered for. Please note, location is negotiable within the Geographic Areas that incumbents are selected for. Incumbents must physically report to a DOI Federal Office.  Please select EACH Geographic Area you wish to be considered for. You will only be considered for the Geographic Areas you select.

US Wildland Fire Service Geographic Areas Map 
 A. California Geographic Area (includes Northern and Southern California, AND Hawaii)
 B. Northwest Geographic Area
 C. Southern Geographic Area
 D. I do not wish to be considered for one of these GA's.  I will select a specific location(s) in the application process.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Survey Questions
1.
Resumes must not exceed two single-sided pages and resumes longer than two pages will not be accepted. I understand that my resume will not reviewed/accepted if it is more than 2 pages long.
 Yes
 No


2.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 A. Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 B. No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required documentation as part of my resume/application.


3.
I have read the "How to Apply" & "Required Documents" sections and understand that failure to submit any required documents may result in my being found not qualified.
 Yes
 No


4.
I understand that I must ensure my resume, supporting documents (SF-50 or other official document to verify date of birth), transcripts, fire qualifications (IQCS), etc., are not password protected or contain redacted information that could make my application package ineligible.
 Yes
 No


5.
I consent to the release of information about my ability and fitness for Federal employment by employers, schools, law enforcement agencies, and other individuals and organizations to investigators, human resource specialists, and other authorized employees or representatives of the Federal Government. I understand that for some other sources of information, a separate specific release may be needed, and I may be contacted for such a release at a later date.
 Yes
 No


6.
I understand that additional selections may be made from this vacancy, within the same geographical area, by other bureaus from within the DOI, through shared recruiting activities, and my application may be shown to multiple hiring offices. Additional selections for similar positions across the entire Department of the Interior within the local commuting area(s) identified in this vacancy announcement may be made. By applying, I agree to have my application shared with any interested selecting official(s) within the DOI. There is no option to opt-out as my information will not be shared with other hiring agencies outside of the DOI. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported in your resume and supporting documents.


1.
I qualify for the GS-06 because:

 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-5 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 I do not meet the above response.


2.
I qualify for the GS-07 because:

 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-6 in the Federal service. I have read the vacancy announcement for examples of specialized experience needed to qualify for this position.
 I do not meet the above response.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙