Position Title
POWERED SUPPORT SYSTEMS MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12986971-AF-26-025 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E5?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E5.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E3 - E5.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfuly and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which demonstrates the knowledge of mechanical maintenance work; ability to read and use technical manuals, illustrations, diagrams and schematics, and skill in the use of equipment and hand tools used in troubleshooting, testing, and repairing equipment.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-10: Do you posses 18 months experience or training removing, adjusting, replacing, cleaning, and installing parts, components, and accessories. Experience which provided working knowledge of mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic theory applying to powered support equipment and systems; and skill to replace, fit, install, and make adjustments. Experience which provided working knowledge of the makeup and operation of the various individual systems maintained and their interrelationships. Experience reading and interpreting parts lists, manufactures' repair manuals, diagrams, and electrical schematics.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a time when you were responsible for troubleshooting and repairing a highly complex piece of powered support equipment. What was the equipment, what was the issue, and what steps did you take to diagnose and fix the problem? In your answer, please detail the types of technical data (e.g., drawings, specifications, schematics) and testing equipment (e.g., analyzers, digital meters, oscilloscopes) you used.



4.

This position requires experience with a wide variety of aerospace ground equipment. Provide a detailed example of a situation where you had to perform maintenance on multiple types of equipment, such as AC/DC power generators, internal combustion engines, hydraulic test stands, and cryogenic carts. What were the challenges you faced in working with such a diverse range of equipment, and how did you ensure each piece of equipment was serviced correctly?



5.

This role requires the ability to independently fault-isolate and repair unusual problems. Describe a time you encountered a novel or particularly challenging issue with a piece of powered support equipment that was not covered by standard procedures. How did you determine the work sequence and what special procedures did you use to resolve the issue? Additionally, describe any experience you have in training other maintenance personnel on troubleshooting and repair procedures.



6.

In this role, you will be responsible for performing intermediate-level maintenance, including engine rebuilding and Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs). Describe your experience with tasks such as removing and replacing crankshafts and pistons, as well as performing corrosion control duties like stripping, sanding, priming, and painting of AGE. What was the most complex engine rebuild or TCTO you have performed?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙