Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst
Agency
National Cemetery Administration
Announcement Number
RP-26-EM-12982597-101 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a National Cemetery Administration (NCA) employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade, GS-14 grade level, in federal service? Specialized experience is defined as experience leading or managing large, complex national or multi-regional programs; providing authoritative guidance and interpretation of laws, regulations, and policies governing program operations; supervising subordinate supervisors and staff across multiple organizational units; directing high-volume production or adjudication processes that require rigorous quality assurance, timely service delivery, and adherence to established standards; conducting program analyses to evaluate effectiveness, identify trends, develop solutions, and recommend changes to improve program performance; overseeing or serving as a Contracting Officer's Representative for major contracts and vendor operations; preparing executive-level reports, briefings, and correspondence for senior leadership, Congressional staff, Veterans Service Organizations, or other external stakeholders; and exercising decision-making authority on sensitive, precedent-setting, or high-visibility issues that impact program outcomes and Veteran or family eligibility determinations.

 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a current, General Schedule employee, do you meet the (52) weeks requirement for the time-in-grade (TIG) requirement at the next lower grade (GS-14)? YOU MUST PROVIDE CURRENT SF-50 AND ANY OTHER SF-50 NECESSARY TO VERIFY TIME IN GRADE.

 I have at least one year Time in Grade in a position at the GS-14 grade level or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or are eligible for 30% DAV or Schedule A appointment).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙