Position Title
LINK UNIT MANAGER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ME-13060673-AF-T5-26-159 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Respond to all questions. For each, choose the response that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application.


1.
Do you have at least 24 months experience, education or training?in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations.
 Yes, I have the skills listed above.
 No, I do not have the skills listed above.


2.
Do you have the ability to develop tailored procedures, conduct technical training and support, and improve processes of TDL systems for users and maintainers?


3.
Do you have the ability to communicate clearly and effectively orally and in writing, using presentation and report formats?


4.
Do you possess skill in recommending changes to operations and maintenance processes to improve mission readiness and system capabilities?


5.

Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume.? Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses.? Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.? Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.  

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.? I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).? I understand that any information I give may be investigated.? I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. 

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙