Position Title
UNIT DEPLOYMENT MANAGER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12941452-AF-26-019 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to May 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants (155th Maintenance Group) ONLY. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Air National Guard within 155th Maintenance Group
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Air National Guard within 155th Maintenance Group.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E7?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E7.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E7.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation system
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-09: Do you possess at least 1 year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Applicants must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management. Experience developing administrative procedures.
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience planning, organizing, and executing unit-level deployment activities. In your response, specifically detail your proficiency in managing Unit Type Codes (UTCs), coordinating Time Phased Force Deployment Data (TPFDD) taskings, and utilizing systems like the Logistics Module (LOGMOD) to track unit status and ensure compliance with Mission Capability (MISCAP) statements.


4.
Please detail your experience utilizing defense readiness reporting systems, such as the Defense Readiness Reporting System (DRRS) and Deliberate and Crisis Action Planning and Execution Segments (DCAPES). How have you previously analyzed training, equipment, and manning metrics to assess unit combat capability and report trend data to leadership?


5.
Explain your background in managing personnel deployment readiness. Provide specific examples of how you have tracked and verified pre-deployment requirements-such as RAT/CBRN training, medical clearances, and ISOPREP completion-using platforms like the Military Personnel Data System or AFFORGEN-Connect. How do you ensure the accuracy of electronic Deployment Readiness Checklists (e-DRCs)?


6.
Describe a situation where you identified a readiness deficiency or a UTC capability shortfall due to manpower or equipment changes. How did you develop a workload mitigation plan, notify the appropriate leadership or functional area managers, and take corrective action to maximize deployable capability?


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙