Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (FSR)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
327-26-FF-13047791-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
10
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Louisville, KY Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and CTAP eligible.

Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of Louisville, KY Regional Benefits Office, or CTAP eligible?
 Yes, I am a current employee of the Louisville, KY Regional Office and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, I am not an employee of either Regional Benefit Office, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria above.


TIME-IN-GRADE  As a current/former Federal GS employee you must meet Time-In-Grade requirements.You MUST submit the required SF-50(s), as described in the job announcement under the required documents section, to show that you meet time-in-grade for this position. Time-In-Grade restrictions also apply for CTAP applicants.


2.
GS-10: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-10 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-9 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.
GS-11: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-10 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy.


4.
GS-10: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-10 Veterans Service Representative (FSR) position.

NOTE: One year of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the GS-09 level. Specialized experience is defined as experience:
Applying federal, state, and local laws regarding benefit programs;
Conducting interviews to evaluate eligibility for benefits and services;
Applying state laws pertaining to conservatorship and estate administration; and/or
Knowledge of fiduciary and field examination programs sufficient to protect beneficiary's assets;
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level as described above.
 I have 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in degree in Business, Management, Economics, Finance, or another degree with coursework that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do this work of this position. Graduate level courses must demonstrate your education has provided you the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (as described in the How You Will Be Evaluated section of this announcement).
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at the GS-10 level. Only graduate education in excess of two full years can be used to combine with experience. The combination of experience and education must total at least one year. [To compute your combined total, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond 2 years by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


5.
GS-11: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-11 Veterans Service Representative (FSR) position.

NOTE: One year of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the GS-10 level. Specialized experience is defined as comprehensive experience:
Applying federal, state, and local laws regarding benefit programs;
Conducting interviews to evaluate eligibility for benefits and services;
Evaluating supporting evidence to determine eligibility leading to entitlement of awarding of benefit;
Applying state laws pertaining to conservatorship and estate administration and/or
Knowledge of fiduciary and field examination programs sufficient to protect beneficiary's assets
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level as described above.
 I possess a PhD. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in Business, Management, Economics, Finance, or another degree with coursework that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do this work of this position; or an LL.M., if related. Graduate level courses must demonstrate your education has provided you the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position (as described in the How You Will Be Evaluated section of this announcement).
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than two and a half years but less than three years of education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two and a half years by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.)
 My education or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not wish to verify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙