Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST (MILITARY)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12958392-AF-26-148 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 111th ATKW
 AOC 2: NG Employees in the 111th Attack Wing (This includes 270 EIS, 201 RHS Det 1, PA ANG HQ Det 2)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you an Enlisted member in the grade of E7 currently serving in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experiences gained through military or civilian technical training? (schools within the human resources business programs are included as general experience qualifications) Do you have a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade?
 Yes
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience which provided a basic working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and personnel programs? Do you have a basic knowledge and experiences of personnel programs gained in a classroom or as an on-the-job trainee? Do you have knowledge-based competency of human resources business elements and can discuss terminology, concepts, principles, and issues related to this competency? Are you experienced in using references and resource materials and experienced in program functions such as, maintaining personnel records, counseling, or classification and assignments? Do you have experience performing personnel functions associated with preparing and maintaining position descriptions and manual records, personnel classification or usage, quality force management, managing personnel records and researching record data? Are you experienced in operating a computer and using varied computer programs?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No, I haven't.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙