Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - Interventional Radiology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13044325-26-CB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position with Veterans Health Administration. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English? [Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.
 Yes
 No


2.
Education

Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE) is required.
NOTE: A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.
 Yes. (If your school was accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other
 No


3.
Certification

All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) duties performed independently. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. 
NOTE: You must submit a copy of your certification(s) with your application.
Do you hold a current certification/registration from the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) in Radiography (R).

 Yes
 No


Please provide the following information regarding your credential(s) from the American Registry of Radiologic Technologist (ARRT) (active and expired): type and valid thru date for each credential.


The following is used to determine the grade requirements for an Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist at the GS-9 grade level. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


4.
Experiences - GS 9

Applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-8) directly related to the position that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. At the GS-8 level, DRTs serve as staff DRTs and are qualified to independently provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services with only occasional oversight or direction for highly complex issues. At the GS-8 level, ALL of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities must be demonstrated:
 Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.
 Yes
 No


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

The candidates must demonstrate ALL of the following technical KSAs and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*):
Ability to balance the needs of patients and staff while still performing complex scans and procedures.
Skill to demonstrate appropriate techniques to gather relevant information from the medical record, significant others, and health care providers.
Ability to assess factors that may contraindicate the procedure.
Knowledge of basic first aid and basic life support practices related to radiography.
Knowledge of physical assessment, aseptic techniques, intravenous methods and techniques and universal precautions.
Knowledge of pre-procedural, procedural, and post-procedural care of patients.
Do you meet ALL of the requirements above? This experience must be fully detailed in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes, I have the required GS-8 level equivalent experience directly related to this position. I understand that I must fully detail this experience in my resume. I further understand that I will be required to provide a narrative response to each KSA if tentatively selected.
 No, I do not have this experience.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed
Job title
Grade Level (for Federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status
(include hours worked per week)
Copy of transcripts - with Degree Conferred and GPA
Current  or former VA Employees must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure or registration - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙