Position Title
Senior IT Specialist (Data Identity Protection)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12972968-26-KT Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-15 Competencies
Select the one statement below that best describes your Information Technology (IT) related experience that meets the following basic requirements: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I have IT-related experience that demonstrates each of the four competencies: (1) Attention to Detail; (2) Customer Service; (3) Oral Communication; and (4) Problem Solving.
 I do not have IT-related experience as stated above.


2.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include: • Providing expert technical oversight and direction in the design, integration, implementation, and operation of enterprise-level Data Loss Protection (DLP) and Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) solutions, including leading complex IT security projects and ensuring compliance with Federal IT security laws, regulations, standards, and guidelines (such as FISMA, NIST, and OMB Circular A-130); • Developing, maintaining, and overseeing technical and policy documentation, risk analyses, and procedures necessary to support secure and effective DLP and ICAM operations, and communicating complex technical and policy information to a variety of audiences, including senior management and external oversight bodies; AND • Coordinating with internal and external stakeholders—including IT security teams, contractors, and oversight authorities—to address IT security inquiries, support secure IT infrastructure operations, and provide authoritative recommendations on data protection and identity management strategies.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙