Position Title
Legal Assistant (Office Automation)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCSL-26-12930520-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Current IRS Employee

Do you currently work on a permanent competitive service appointment with the Internal Revenue Service?

You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

You can check your competitive service status by viewing your latest Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, Block 34, Position Occupied. If eligible, you will see 1-Competitive Service in this block.*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. East Hartford, CT
 C. Washington, DC
 D. Jacksonville, FL
 E. Miami, FL
 F. Plantation, FL
 G. Saint Petersburg, FL
 H. Atlanta, GA
 I. Baltimore, MD
 J. Boston, MA
 K. Newark, NJ
 L. Buffalo, NY
 M. New York, NY
 N. Westbury, NY
 O. Greensboro, NC
 P. Philadelphia, PA
 Q. Pittsburgh, PA
 R. Nashville, TN
 S. Richmond, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-05 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-05 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS 07level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-06 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


3.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


4.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Legal Assistant (Office Automation) position with IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-5: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Legal Assistant (OA) at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed four years of education above the high school level obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education beyond two years (total semester hours minus 60) by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GS-6: Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Legal Assistant (OA) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
GS-7: Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Legal Assistant (OA) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Typing Requirement: This position requires a qualified typist. A qualified typist can type 40 words per minute based on a 5 minute sample with three or fewer errors. Are you a qualified typist?

 Yes
 No


5.
Which statement best describes your experience in performing administrative and support services for a staff of attorneys or other professionals? (Please select one answer).
 I have more than 3 years of experience performing administrative and support services for a staff of attorneys or other professionals.
 I have at least 2 years of experience performing administrative and support services for a staff of attorneys or other professionals.
 I have at least 1 year of experience performing administrative and support services for a staff of attorneys or other professionals.
 I have less than 1 year of experience performing administrative and support services for a staff of attorneys or other professionals.
 I have not performed administrative and support services for a staff of attorneys or other professionals.


6.
Which of the following best describes your experience in maintaining office filing systems, retrieving data from files, and maintaining security and confidentiality? (Please select one answer).
 I have experience establishing and maintaining a filing system for a legal office. I update and revise legal files as necessary, maintaining security and confidentiality of the legal files, both physical and electronic. I retrieve data from legal files and summarize research information for legal staff.
 I have experience organizing and maintaining a filing system using established office filing procedures. I retrieve information from legal files when necessary.
 I retrieve information from office files when asked to do so.
 I have no experience dealing with office files.


7.
Select the statement that best describes your experience screening and distributing legal correspondence. (Please select one answer).
 I have experience screening and distributing legal correspondence such as answers, motions, briefs, etc.
 I have experience sorting, routing, and prioritizing legal correspondence or other documents.
 I have experience reviewing and determining appropriate action on all correspondence.
 I have experience opening, reading, and routing mail to the appropriate person.
 I have never performed this task.


8.
Select all statements that describe your listening skills. (Select all that apply).
 A. I serve as a facilitator to gather information during group sessions and keep discussions on track by recording information on a flip chart/board, etc.
 B. I am able to take verbal instructions and complete assignments without asking someone to put it in writing.
 C. I routinely take minutes at meetings and prepare a summary for my manager to share with the rest of the office.
 D. I take clear and accurate phone messages.
 E. I do not have any experience in performing the tasks listed above.


9.
Which statement best describes your experience in monitoring and tracking priorities to meet deadlines, setting own priorities, planning and coordinating office activities based on established procedures and policies? (Please select one answer).
 I monitor and track priorities, setting my own priorities, planning and coordinating office activities based on established office procedures and supervisor's policies.
 I established deadlines and scheduled my work and that of subordinate secretarial or clerical staff to meet those deadlines.
 I scheduled my work activities and that of subordinate secretarial or clerical staff to meet required deadlines.
 I set priorities for specific tasks and assignments.
 I follow a daily schedule set by my supervisor.
 I don't set goals and priorities.


10.
Select from the list below the programs or applications you have used to create or revise legal documents. (Please select all that apply).
 A. I have used the Macros functions in Microsoft Word to create documents.
 B. I have used Microsoft Word or other word processing software to type, format, and revise legal documents.
 C. I have created and edited spreadsheets using Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 D. I have created and edited presentations using Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 E. I have used Adobe Acrobat to redact documents.
 F. I have scanned and saved documents using PDF or other file format.
 G. I do not have experience performing the aforementioned tasks.


11.
Select the statements from the list below that describe your administrative work experience. (Please select all that apply).

 A. I have experience greeting office visitors and answering the phones.
 B. I have experience arranging meetings or conferences.
 C. I have experience reading, interpreting, and typing legal documents filed in court cases.
 D. I have experience creating and maintaining office filing systems.
 E. I have experience keeping a supervisor's calendar, including scheduling appointments.
 F. I have experience making travel arrangements and filing reimbursement documents for others.
 G. I have experience training others or making formal presentations to a group.
 H. I have experienced explaining procedures and processes to customers or co-workers.
 I. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc). for administrative tasks I have completed.
 J. I do not have experience in performing the above listed tasks.


12.
Which statement best describes your experience in drafting, assembling and mailing legal documents and correspondence, such as legal briefs, answers, memoranda, attachments, subpoenas, exhibits, pleadings and other documents ensuring compliance with court rules and procedures? (Please select one answer).
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


13.
Which of the following best describes your experience in communicating at work? (Please select one answer).
 I have experience proactively developing and maintaining ongoing relationships with others with diverse needs and backgrounds.
 I have experience maintaining relationships with others with diverse needs and backgrounds.
 I have had contact with others with limited needs and backgrounds.
 None of the above.


14.
Which of the following best describes your reading skills? (Please select one answer).
 I read, understand and follow written instructions to complete work assignments.
 I read technical information and determine how to apply its concepts on the job.
 I read technical information (for example, manuals, books or reports. and interpret the information for others.
 None of the above reflects my reading skills.


15.
Which of the following best describes your experience in reviewing and proofreading legal correspondence and documents? (Please select one answer).
 I have experience preparing, reviewing and proofreading legal correspondence or other legal documents for grammar, spelling, punctuation, citation format, and document format.
 I have experience preparing legal correspondence or other documents and proofreading for grammar, spelling, punctuation and format.
 I have experience proofreading correspondence for grammar and spelling.
 I have experience typing correspondence from a rough draft.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


16.
Which of the following best describes your experience in providing customer service? (Please select one answer).
 I have discussed and explained technical material that was often controversial or sensitive. I have acted as the main liaison with other departments or organizations.
 I have given short presentations at briefings or meetings (e.g. staff meetings, small project workgroup meetings, meetings with fellow team members).
 I have questioned, interviewed, or conferred with others to obtain or verify information; and explained non-technical procedures to others.
 I have greeted visitors, or relayed messages, or answered and redirected telephone calls.
 My experience is not described above.


17.
Which of the following best describes your experience as a member of a team? (Please select one answer).
 I have not been a member of a team.
 I prefer to work alone.
 I work with others to find a solution to issues and problems.
 I have experience as a team leader providing guidance and direction.


18.
Which of the following best describes your experience identifying needs or problems and determining corrective action? (Please select one answer).
 I have performed this task on the job, with supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have independently performed this task as a regular part of a job.
 I am often consulted by others for assistance in performing this task.
 I refer others to a supervisor or senior employee.
 My experience is not reflected in the options above.


19.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with Microsoft Excel? (Please select one answer).
 I can open, edit, save, and print spreadsheets using Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I can create, format, and print a spreadsheet using standardized forms in Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I can perform all tasks listed above in addition to using functions and formulas in Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I have experience using Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 I do not have experience using spreadsheet software.


20.
Which of the following best describes your experience with Microsoft Word? (Please select one answer).
 I can open, edit, save and print a Word document.
 I can create, format and print a Word document utilizing standardized forms in Word.
 I can perform all of the functions above, plus create tables of authorities and special formatting in a Word document.
 I have experience using other word processing programs.
 I do not have experience using a word processing program.


21.
Which statement best describes your experience in using automated legal databases and/or creating and maintaining a computerized record system? (Please select one answer).
 In addition to independently performing this task as a regular part of my job, I have supervised, trained and am consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have had education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I do not have education, training or experience in performing this task.


22.
Select the software applications you have experience using on a regular basis. (Please select all that apply).
 A. Microsoft Outlook or other e-mail software.
 B. Microsoft Word or other word processing software.
 C. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 D. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 E. Microsoft Publisher or other publishing software.
 F. Microsoft Access or other database software.
 G. Microsoft Edge
 H. SharePoint
 I. Adobe Acrobat
 J. Lexis/Nexis
 K. Westlaw
 L. Database tracking software
 M. I do not have experience using any of the above listed software applications


23.
Select the statements that best describe your experience using office automation systems. (Please select all that apply).
 A. I have experience opening cases, as well as inputting and updating suspense dates and status codes in a legal database.
 B. I have experience generating various reports from a database, such as case inventory reports, suspense reports, and master listing reports.
 C. I have experience entering timekeeping data.
 D. I have experience creating and receiving email.
 E. I have experience maintaining an electronic calendar.
 F. I have experience entering, updating, and generating data using spreadsheets.
 G. I have experience preparing travel arrangements through an online travel source.
 H. I have experience creating travel authorizations and travel vouchers electronically.
 I. I do not have experience performing the above-mentioned tasks.


24.
Select the type of legal documents you have created and formatted in Microsoft Word or other word processing software in accordance with legal office procedures and guidelines. (Please select all that apply).
 A. Answers.
 B. Motions.
 C. Trial Preparation (Discovery).
 D. Stipulation of Facts/Exhibits.
 E. Status Reports.
 F. Settlement Memorandums.
 G. Briefs.
 H. Trial Memorandums.
 I. Decisions.
 J. Subpoenas.
 K. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc). for my work in creating and formatting legal documents in accordance with legal office procedures.
 L. I do not have experience creating or formatting legal documents in accordance with legal office procedures and guidelines.


25.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience examining and analyzing legal documents to determine appropriate action for entering data into an automated tracking/recordkeeping system. (Please select one answer).
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have independently performed this task as a regular part of the job and usually without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 In addition to independently performing this task as a regular part of my job, I have supervised, training, and am consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 I do not have education, training, or experience in performing this task.


26.
Select the statement that describes your highest level of experience in performing research, analyzing case files and reference materials, and providing information to attorneys or other professionals for their use in interpreting statues, regulations, and/or policies. (Please select one answer).
 I have over three years of experience performing legal research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have one to three years of experience performing legal research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have less than one year of experience performing legal research and analyzing case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.
 I have not performed this task for attorneys or other professionals, but I have performed legal research and analyzed case files in a classroom.
 I have not performed legal research or analyzed case files and/or reference materials to be used by attorneys or other professionals.


27.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience reviewing correspondence and other documents received to determine due dates, response dates, or other required actions that would necessitate updating electronic records and/or databases. (Please select one answer).
 I have experience reviewing legal documents and other correspondence to identify when electronic records and/or databases should be updates and to determine due dates for responses or other required actions.
 I have experience reviewing legal documents and other correspondence to identify if records and/or databases should be updated to reflect due dates or other actions.
 I have experience annotating case files and other records to reflect receipt and due dates for response or other required actions.
 I do not have experience performing this task.


28.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience preparing and finalizing legal documents or other correspondence. (Please select one answer).

 I have experience preparing and finalizing answers, motions, briefs, or other legal documents without assistance from co-workers or supervisors.
 I have experience preparing and finalizing legal documents or other correspondence based on notes, samples, or rough drafts.
 I have experience preparing memos, transmittal letters, and form letters.
 I have experience initiating and reviewing database reports.
 I have never performed this task.


29.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience proofreading legal correspondence or other documents for grammar, spelling, punctuation, format, tone, and conformance to office policies and procedures. (Please select one answer).
 I have experience reviewing and proofreading briefs, answers, motions, and other legal documents for grammar, spelling, punctuation, format, tone, and conformance to office policies and procedures.
 I have experience proofreading legal correspondence and other documents for spelling and conformance to office policies and procedures.
 I have experience reviewing legal documents and researching policies and procedures regarding the processing of the documents.
 I have completed college level courses focused on writing that included reviewing documents for format, grammar, and tone.
 I do not have experience reviewing or proofreading legal correspondence or other documents.


30.
Select the statement that best describes your highest level of experience reviewing documents to compile an electronic list of exhibits referred to in a Stipulation of Facts or other legal documents. (Please select one answer).
 I have experience reviewing legal documents to compile electronic lists of exhibits using electronic spreadsheets, databases, and legal software like Microsoft Access and Microsoft Excel.
 I have experience reviewing legal documents to compile electronic lists of exhibits using electronic spreadsheets and databases.
 I have experience preparing electronic lists of exhibits.
 I do not have experience performing this task.


31.
Which of the following best describes your reading skills in regards to legal documentation? (Please select one answer).
 I read, understand and follow written instructions to complete work assignments.
 I read legal information and determine how to apply its concepts on the job.
 I read legal information (for example, manuals, books or reports) and interpret the information for others.
 None of the above reflects my reading skills.


32.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in taking on extra responsibilities and multiple work assignments? (Please select one answer).
 I seek additional assignments and successfully complete multiple work assignments.
 I am often assigned to complete additional assignments given by my team leader and/or manager.
 I am sometimes assigned to complete additional assignments given by my team leader and/or manager.
 I do not take on additional assignments and responsibilities.


33.
Integrity Certification:Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙