Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12962802-26-SJC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Administrative Officer position with the Federal government.


NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must clearly indicate the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment. Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.


1.
GS-7: Select the appropriate answer based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level or pay band in the federal service that includes performing the following duties: conducting studies to assess the productivity, accuracy, and effectiveness of and administrative or clinical functions in the health care delivery system carried out by administrative or professional personnel to develop recommendations for improving the accuracy, reliability, or acceptability of further processes or services.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): I have completed one (1) full year of graduate level education OR have a bachelor’s degree with superior academic achievement. This education must have equipped you with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position at this grade level and is in a field directly related to the position.
 COMBINING EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): I have some specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 grade level but less than one year, and I have some graduate level education but less than one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% of the requirement for the GS-7 grade level.
 I do not meet the specialized experience and or education in any of the above statements


2.
GS-9: Select the appropriate answer based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or pay band in the federal service that includes performing the following duties: supporting a healthcare delivery system by applying specialized principles of primary care operations, or practices of health care management to achieve an effective and efficient administrative service in the health care delivery system or shaping the overall system policies, goals or objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the organization.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE (Transcripts Required): I have successfully completed a master’s degree OR equivalent graduate degree that pertains directly to the duties of the position. OR I have successfully completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. OR I have a LL.B. if related. OR
 COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE (Transcripts Required): I have some specialized experience as described in A but less than one year, and I have more than one year but less than two years of graduate education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of these requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify).
 I do not meet the specialized experience and or education in any of the above statements


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙