Position Title
FACILITY DESIGN AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST-Title 5 OBO
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12853428-T5-26-076 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 06, 2026 to Jan 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.



1.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience using well -established occupational methods and techniques to determine facility, grounds, equipment overhaul, maintenance, restoration, repair needs, etc?


3a.
Please explain your experience.


4.
Do you have experience administering, coordinating, and verifying design work and projects performed by A&E firms, characterized by large funding costs and long duration times?


4a.
Please explain your experience.


5.
Do you have experience acting as a project manager for improvement design and construction projects?


5a.
Please explain your experience.


6.
Do you have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed?


6a.
Please explain your experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙