Position Title
Health Technician (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12961818-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) - GS-0640-5/6/7/8 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements
To qualify for appointment as an Health Technician (Ophthalmology), all applicants must possess the following:


Citizenship. Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)


English Language Proficiency. Health Technicians (Ophthalmology) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f).


1.
Basic Experience and Education-


Select the appropriate answer based on your current level of education and/or experience.
 Experience. I have 1 year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician. (Must be clearly demonstrated in resume)
 Education. I have 2 years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associate's degree in a health care related degree. (Copy of valid transcripts are required when submitting application).
 Experience/Education Combination. I have Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school. (Copy of valid transcripts are required when submitting application).
 Experience/Education Combination. I have Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces. (Copy of valid transcripts are required when submitting application).
 Experience/Education Combination. I have Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting. (Copy of valid transcripts are required when submitting application or a Copy of successful course completion certificate).
 I do not meet any of the above Experience/Education/ Or Combination requirement.


2.
Certification

All applicants must be certified as a Certified Ophthalmic Assistant (COA) with the Joint Commission on Allied Health Personnel in Ophthalmology (JCAHPO). The COA certification is JCAHPO's entry-level certification examination for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology).

Exception. Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements may be appointed as a graduate Health Technician (Ophthalmology) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) that provides care under the supervision of an Ophthalmologist. The exception only applies below the full performance level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level the candidate must be certified. Failure to obtain COA certification during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment and may result in termination of employment.


Do you have the required basic certification that is stated above?
 Yes.
 No.


Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs


Grade Determinations


3.
GS 5- Health Technician (Ophthalmology)-(Entry Level)

Experience or Education
None beyond the basic requirements

Do you meet the Basic requirements at the GS 5 grade level?
 Yes.
 No.


4.
GS 6- Health Technician (Ophthalmology)-(Developmental Level 1)

Experience.
One year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level.

Do you possess the required length of experience as listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
GS-6 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of general outpatient clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment.
Ability to obtain, document and record demographic and medical information from patients in order to develop an accurate medical record.
Ability to use basic ophthalmic equipment.
Knowledge of basic disinfection of non-critical reusable medical equipment.

Do you demonstrate all of the KSA's listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


6.
GS-7 -Health Technician (Ophthalmology),(Developmental Level 2)

Experience.
One year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level.

Do you possess the required length of experience as listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


7.
GS-7 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of anatomy and function of the eye and basic ocular pharmacology.
Knowledge of outpatient eye care policies and procedures in a health care environment.
Ability to use basic ophthalmic diagnostic equipment to perform preliminary ocular testing.
Ability to perform minor extraocular surgical assisting.
Ability to provide eye care patient education.

Do you demonstrate all of the KSA's listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


8.
GS-8 Health Technician (Ophthalmology), (Full Performance Level)

Experience.
One year of experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level

Do you possess the required length of experience as listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


9.
GS-8 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation.
Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens.
Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting.
Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology.
Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye.
Knowledge of optics.
Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.

Do you demonstrate all of the KSA's listed above?
 Yes.
 No.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible).
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008).
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙