Position Title
Military Pay Systems Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12884245-WE-ZD-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis.


2.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held. (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present)


3.
Which of the following responses BEST represents your performance rating?
 I received the highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received the second highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years in a related or unrelated position.
 I do not meet any of the performance rating described above.


4.
Which of the following BEST represents your awards history? Awards include sustained superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, meritorious civilian service awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards. Letters of commendation and appreciation are NOT creditable.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I have not received any awards.


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.



1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your education and/or experience and meets the basic qualification requirements for Military Pay Systems Specialist, GS-501-9
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service to include: Analyzing and interpreting legislation and regulations related to military pay and personnel administration; Researching and resolving complex operational problems within automated pay and personnel systems; Auditing and reviewing military pay records for accuracy and compliance with applicable rules and regulations; Managing pay adjustments, voucher payments, and debt determinations for military personnel; Preparing and distributing large-scale payrolls (e.g., $200 million per month).
 I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D in a related field of study. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" above and graduate education as described in "B" above. To combine education and experience, determine the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level. Then determine the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level. Finally, add two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION)
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes
 No


3.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙