Position Title
REGIONAL HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-157 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience and/or education as it relates to this position. This experience must be documented in your resume.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the NF-04/GS-9 grade level. Specialized experience includes applying fundamental human resources principles, policies, methods, and practices to provide comprehensive human resources services
 I have a doctoral degree in Human Resources or a related field OR three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience, described above, to qualify at the NF-04/GS-11 level.
 None of the statements above apply to me.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to Human Resources such as recruiting/staffing, classification, employee relations, labor relations, benefits, overseas allowances, training and development.
 I have Human Resources work experience within a Department of Defense (DoD) Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) activity.
 I have Human Resources work experience within any Department of Defense (DoD) activity.
 I have Human Resources work experience outside DoD and/or the Federal government.
 None of the statements apply to me.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience advising management on Recruitment strategies, the use of valid selection criteria, preference eligibility, diversity and providing guidance on fair and transparent hiring practices.
 I have three (3) or more years of experience in the task listed in the above statement.
 I have two (2) or more years of experience in the task listed in the above statement.
 I have one (1) or more years of experience in the task listed in the above statement
 None of the statements apply to me.


4.
Choose a statement that best describes your work experience using Human Resources Data and Information Systems such as SAPHR, KRONOS timekeeping system, USA Staffing; or other human resources information systems .
 I have related experience in a Navy non-appropriated fund human resources department.
 I have related Federal experience outside of a Navy non-appropriated fund resources department.
 I have related experience outside of the Federal government.
 None of these statements apply to me.


5.
Choose a statement that best describes your experience working in an overseas environment.
 I have experience working in a DoD Human Resources Office OCONUS
 I do not have experience working in a DoD Human Resources Office OCONUS


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙