Position Title
Electrotonic Industrial Controls Mechanic
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU-26-12885325-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Mar 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 40 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electrotonic Industrial Controls Mechanic position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.



1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic activities. I am consulted by other employees in difficult situations regarding: the repairing, maintenance, inspection and performance of preventive maintenance on machinery; resolving complex problems which may involve large groups of employees; conducting cross training, and reviewing subordinates completed work; and applying a high degree of knowledge of electronic theory and circuits to include installing, repairing, overhauling, aligning, testing and maintaining complex equipment and/or machinery and operations testing. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic activities. I am skilled in: repairing, maintenance, and performance of preventive maintenance on machinery; assisting in resolving complex problems which may involve large groups of employees; assisting in cross training; and applying high degree of knowledge of electronic theory and circuits to include installing, repairing, overhauling, aligning, testing and maintaining complex equipment and/or machinery and operations testing. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic tasks. I have the ability to repair, maintain, and perform preventive maintenance on machinery; apply knowledge of electronic theory and circuits to include installing, repairing, overhauling, aligning, testing and maintaining equipment and/or machinery and operations testing. I work under supervision of a journey-level employee who review my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple Electronic Industrial Controls Mechanic tasks, or I have received training in this area.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙