Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ST-12923617-26-RC Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who:
Has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND
Has not held the grade level of the position being advertised AND/OR
Has not held the promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.
To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your organization.

Please do not submit an award SF-50.


 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who has:
held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; AND
held the target grade level of the position being advertised; OR
held the promotion potential to the target grade level of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, your organization, and your full performance level.  Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1."  Please do not submit an award SF-50.

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you claiming eligibility based on an OPM interchange agreement or other special authority?

You may be eligible under a special authority if you are a:

Former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System.
Former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff.
Former incumbent of a position brought into the competitive service.
Disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.
Former ACTION volunteer.
Current or former Foreign Service officer or employee.
Former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
Current or former employee of the U.S. Postal Service.

There are specific eligibility requirements for each of these special hiring authorities. Please read OPM's code of federal hiring regulations for more details.

 Yes
 No


8.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-12 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Budget Analyst position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the federal service performing such duties as: Participating in the development of the Spring Call, OMB, and Congressional budget submissions; analyzing reports on obligations: expenditures, receipts, workload, unit cost, and personnel in relation to approved work programs and available funds; communicating, when necessary, with the Budget Officer/Comptroller, Assistant Budget Officer, Procurement Officer, Finance and Accounting Officer, and personnel in the Division's litigating branches regarding emerging issues and trends impacting the Division; advising the Budget Officer and Assistant Budget Officer on the budgetary and programmatic impact of appropriations bills, budget actions and laws; assisting Budget Officer, Procurement Officer, and Finance and Accounting Officer; and personnel in the Division's litigating branches regarding emerging issues and trends impacting the Division; drafting portions of briefings for senior Division and Departmental leadership; assisting in briefing OPBE officials on budget options.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-13 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Budget Analyst position.
 I have one year of specialized experience  equivalent to the GS-12 level in the federal service performing such duties as: Participating in all aspects of the development of the Spring Call, OMB, and Congressional budget submissions; independently analyzing reports on obligations: expenditures, receipts, workload, unit cost, and personnel in relation to approved work programs and available funds; regularly communicating with the Budget Officer/Comptroller Assistant Budget Officer, Procurement Officer, Finance and Accounting Officer, and personnel in the Division's litigating branches regarding emerging issues and trends impacting the Division; advising the Budget Officer and Assistant Budget Officer on the budgetary and programmatic impact of appropriations bills, budget actions and laws; assisting Budget Officer, Procurement Officer, and Finance and Accounting Officer; and personnel in the Division's litigating branches regarding emerging issues and trends impacting the Division; drafting briefings for senior Division and Departmental leadership; briefing OPBE officials on budget options and offers well-grounded and well-reasoned recommendations.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
As a budget analyst, you are participating in the budget formulation process for a long-range, multi-million dollar program. Which of the following actions are most critical to ensure the final budget submission is not only robust and accurate but also strategically aligned for high-level presentations to the CFO and Congress, and capable of guiding programmatic policy? (Select all that apply)
 A. Solely relying on program managers for all financial data, under the assumption that they possess complete and verified information.
 B. Proactively reviewing and authoritatively interpreting proposed legislation, executive orders, and OMB circulars to anticipate their multi-year impact on program funding and objectives.
 C. Meticulously consolidating budget estimates from various subordinate components, ensuring mathematical accuracy, logical justification, and strict conformance to broad organizational and federal budgetary policies.
 D. Developing and implementing comprehensive justifications that clearly articulate program needs, demonstrate strategic value, and align with national energy priorities, while also serving as a basis for programmatic policy.
 E. All of the above.
 F. None of the above.


2.
You are tasked with developing and issuing new programmatic policies and guidelines for budget preparation that will be used by all subordinate units within a major DOJ program. What is the most crucial consideration for ensuring these policies are effective and promote sound financial management? Select the BEST answer.
 Designing policies that are intentionally vague to allow for maximum flexibility in interpretation.
 Basing policies solely on historical precedents without considering future strategic directions or emerging challenges.
 Ensuring the policies are clear, comprehensive, legally compliant, and strategically aligned with the program's long-term goals, while also being practical for diverse subordinate units to implement.
 Developing policies in isolation to maintain strict control over the budget process, releasing them without prior consultation.


3.
An organization is undergoing a major restructuring that significantly alters program responsibilities and reporting lines. As a budget analyst, what is your primary responsibility in adapting the budget administration process to this change? Select the BEST answer.
 To maintain existing budget structures and processes until formal written guidance is issued from the highest level.
 To proactively analyze the restructuring's impact on funding flows, budgetary authorizations, and financial reporting requirements, then develop and advise on necessary adjustments.
 To temporarily halt all budget formulation activities until the new organizational structure stabilizes.
 To outsource all affected budget functions to an external consultant to avoid internal disruption.


4.
A budget analyst is tasked with overseeing the long-term financial health of a dynamic, multi-year program. To effectively manage financial risks and ensure continuous compliance with evolving regulations, which of the following is most critical? Select the BEST answer.
 Reviewing only annual financial reports without examining underlying transaction data.
 Implementing a reactive strategy where financial adjustments are only made after a compliance violation occurs.
 Establishing robust internal controls, regularly reviewing financial systems for potential enhancements, and proactively monitoring expenditures against legal and regulatory requirements.
 Delegating all financial oversight to program managers, assuming they have full expertise in compliance.


5.
An organization's financial management system is due for a major upgrade. As a budget analyst, what is your primary role in this process to ensure the new system effectively supports the organization's budgetary and financial objectives? Select the BEST answer.
 To passively accept the IT department's recommendations without providing budgetary insights.
 To actively participate in design and testing, ensuring the system accommodates complex budgetary models, generates accurate financial performance data, and complies with financial regulations.
 To focus only on the cost of the upgrade, disregarding its long-term functional benefits.
 To provide a list of desired features without understanding the technical feasibility or budgetary implications.


6.
A major DOJ program faces an unforeseen significant budget shortfall mid-fiscal year. As a budget analyst, what is your primary responsibility in managing the financial implications of this crisis to maintain program critical operations and compliance? Select the BEST answer.
 Immediately advise your supervisor of the situation and conduct a review of all program financial systems and expenditures to identify potential reallocations, develop corrective action plans, prepare documentation for necessary reprogramming or supplemental requests, and make recommendations to your supervisor.
 Inform stakeholders that the program's financial health is solely the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
 Focus on short-term fixes without analyzing the systemic causes or long-term financial impact.


7.
As a budget analyst, you are tasked with developing a new budgetary strategy for a cutting-edge program facing novel and complex funding challenges. This involves factors such as unprecedented technological development costs and uncertain market adoption. What is the most effective approach to ensure a robust and adaptable strategy? Select the BEST answer.
 Apply a standard budgetary template from a similar, less complex program.
 Develop multiple scenarios with varying funding levels and timelines, evaluating risks, opportunities, and long-term implications for each.
 Consult only with internal program staff, avoiding external experts or projections due to confidentiality concerns.
 Prioritize short-term cost savings over long-term strategic investment and program growth.


8.
As a budget analyst, you are collaborating on the development of a new agency-wide strategic plan. Your role is to ensure the plan's performance measures as they relate to your Component are realistic and achievable. What is the most effective approach to contribute to this strategic planning effort? Select the BEST answer.
 Providing the same measures as the previous strategic plan.
 Conducting in-depth analyses of current data and engaging with program offices on the reliability of the data.
 Deferring all input to subject matter experts.


9.
You are presenting a complex budget justification for a critical program to a panel of senior executives, one of whom expresses strong skepticism due to recent budget cuts in other areas. What is the most effective strategy to influence their perspective and secure support? Select the BEST answer.
 Insist on the necessity of the funding without elaborating, citing policy.
 Present a clear, data-driven argument demonstrating the program's strategic value and return on investment, addressing their concerns directly with proposed solutions or compromises where feasible.
 Challenge their skepticism by highlighting their lack of program-specific knowledge.
 Withdraw the request to avoid further conflict and potential rejection.


10.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙