Position Title
Wood Worker
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12894549-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position is subject to the provisions of the Domestic Violence Offender Gun Ban commonly referred to as the Lautenberg Amendment. This act bans individuals convicted of misdemeanor domestic violence and certain others from possession or access to firearms or ammunition. (False or fraudulent information provided by candidates is criminally punishable by fine or imprisonment per 18 U.S.C. Section 1001). Are you willing and able to obtain and maintain eligibility for this position based on the provisions of the Lautenberg Amendment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Wood Worker position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Wood Worker duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties constructing and repairing wooden supply, shipping, and storage items such as boxes, crates, pallets, and other comparable items that have rectangular shapes and construction features used for straight in-line and diagonal bracing. I am skilled in using hand and power tools such as hammers, carpenter squares, nailing machines, banding or strapping devices, and power saws to fasten items, cut boards to specified measurements, and trim edges. I have moved and stored these completed items using material handling equipment such as electrical, gasoline, or diesel powered forklifts. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range duties constructing and repairing wooden supply, shipping, and storage items such as boxes, crates, pallets, and other comparable items that have rectangular shapes and construction features used for straight in-line and diagonal bracing. I am skilled in using hand and power tools such as hammers, carpenter squares, nailing machines, banding or strapping devices, and power saws to fasten items, cut boards to specified measurements, and trim edges. I have moved and stored these completed items using material handling equipment such as electrical, gasoline, or diesel powered forklifts. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties disassembling and repairing wooden boxes, crates, pallets and other similar items used for straight in-line and diagonal bracing. I can disassemble these items, select reusable parts and make repairs, such as tightening and replacing nails, screws, broken boards, hardware, and other easy to replace parts. I have used hand and power tools such as hammers, carpenter squares, and nailing machines. I have moved and stored these completed items and materials using material handling equipment such as electrical, gasoline, or diesel powered forklifts. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties disassembling and repairing wooden boxes, crates, pallets and other similar items used for straight in-line and diagonal bracing. I have used hand and power tools such as hammers and nailing machines for this process.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙