Position Title
Field Program Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCNA-26-12985969-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 W. Phoenix, AZ
 X. Lake Forest, CA
 Y. Los Angeles, CA
 Z. Sacramento, CA
 AA. San Diego, CA
 AB. San Francisco, CA
 AC. San Jose, CA
 AD. Denver, CO
 AE. East Hartford, CT
 AF. Washington, DC
 AG. Jacksonville, FL
 AH. Miami, FL
 AI. Plantation, FL
 AJ. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AK. Atlanta, GA
 AL. Honolulu, HI
 AM. Chicago, IL
 AN. Indianapolis, IN
 AO. Louisville, KY
 AP. New Orleans, LA
 AQ. Baltimore, MD
 AR. Boston, MA
 AS. Detroit, MI
 AT. Saint Paul, MN
 AU. Kansas City, MO
 B. Saint Louis, MO
 C. Las Vegas, NV
 D. Newark, NJ
 E. Buffalo, NY
 F. New York, NY
 G. Westbury, NY
 H. Greensboro, NC
 I. Cincinnati, OH
 J. Independence, OH
 K. Oklahoma City, OK
 L. Portland, OR
 M. Philadelphia, PA
 N. Pittsburgh, PA
 O. Nashville, TN
 P. Austin, TX
 Q. Farmers Branch, TX
 R. Houston, TX
 S. Salt Lake City, UT
 T. Richmond, VA
 U. Seattle, WA
 V. Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-07 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


3.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-09 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Field Program Specialist position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-9: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Field Program Specialist at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GS-11: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Field Program Specialist at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 I have successfully completed a masters or equivalent graduate degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field detailed in the announcement which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the statement that best describes your experience utilizing systems to retrieve, analyze, and/or process human resource (HR) information?
 I do not have experience with HR systems.
 I have processed HR actions (e.g., personnel action requests) and learned about HR systems.
 I have occasionally processed HR actions, accessed, and analyzed HR data for a customer or my manager.
 I routinely as part of my daily work process HR actions, access HR system data, and provide analyses to my manager and others.


4.
Select the statement that best describes your experience interpreting HR policies and providing instructions or guides on HR-related topics?
 I do not have any experience creating instructions or guides on HR processes.
 I have some experience interpreting policies and occasionally creating or updating guides (e.g., once or twice per year), mostly for myself or my manager.
 I routinely interpret policies and create, or update instructions and guides related to HR processes to share with my manager.
 I routinely create or update instructions and guides related to HR processes, and those guides are used by customers and coworkers.


5.
From the following list, please select the statement that best describes your role(s) n the procurement and budgetary process.
 I have experience working with accounting, procurement, and payment procedures, analyzing budgetary trends, and I have worked within an automated system.
 I have experience projecting financial requirements and analyzing those projections with respect to program delivery requirements.
 I have assisted with accounting, procurement, and payment procedures.
 I have monitored and tracked budget expenditures at my level.
 I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations to management officials within an organization.
 None of the above.


6.
Which of the following resource management tasks have you performed? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Tracked expenses such as office supplies or travel and training budgets.
 B. Gathered information to assist in developing contract documents.
 C. Reviewed and approved travel documents ensuring adherence to policies and regulations.
 D. Entered requisitions or other financial transactions in a procurement system.
 E. Held a purchase card.
 F. Approved and/or reviewed procurement actions.
 G. Interpreted and applied regulations to travel and financial policies.
 H. None of the above.


7.
What role have you served in interpreting financial, procurement, and contracting guidelines and regulations and applying them to operations?
 I have been the lead responsible for developing office-wide policies and procedures based on newly introduced regulations and guidelines.
 I have been responsible for providing interpretations to the field on regulations, policies, and procedures based on existing precedents.
 I have been responsible for researching regulations, policies, and procedures to locate relevant sections and disseminating information to the field on an as-needed basis.
 None of the above.


8.
What is your experience monitoring and administering purchase orders, contracts, or other procurement instruments to ensure compliance with applicable policies, procedures, and funding requirements?
 I have extensive training like a certificate or a degree in this area, and it is a major part of my day-to-day job. I perform this role largely independently.
 I have some training in this area, and I do it as a major part of my job in conjunction with my supervisor or colleagues.
 I have some training and experience in this area. I don’t do it every day, but I have done it with help from my supervisor or colleague.
 I know how to direct customers to the right place to get help with this task.
 I do not have any formal training or experience in this area.


9.
Which of the following activities have you performed to address workflow issues and efficiency? (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have gathered and analyzed information specifically for the purpose of resolving process issues and shared my recommendations to management.
 B. I have established tracking systems to monitor workflow.
 C. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my knowledge and demonstrated skill in this competency.
 D. None of the above.


10.
Please select the software tools for which you have advanced level experience (Select all that apply)
 A. Excel
 B. Word
 C. PowerPoint
 D. Timekeeping Software
 E. Case and matter management systems
 F. Office-wide travel management system
 G. Office-wide financial/procurement systems
 H. Office-wide HR system
 I. SharePoint
 J. OneNote
 K. None of the above


11.
Select the statement that best describes the level of formal training you have related to analysis of program performance.
 I have a certificate in program analysis, project management, or related areas.
 I have an undergraduate degree in a related field (public administration, business administration, etc.)
 I have a graduate degree in a business or public management related field.
 I have an associate degree and/or certificate in business or public administration or related field.
 No, I do not have any formal training or education related to business or public administration.


12.
Select the types of analytical techniques and tools with which you have advanced level experience (select all that apply).
 A. Survey analysis and design
 B. Focus groups
 C. Legal, document, or policy research
 D. Statistical analysis (e.g., correlations)
 E. Data visualization (e.g., graphs and charts)
 F. None of the above


13.
Select the statement that best describes your experience collaborating with others. (Select all that apply.)
 A. I have worked on large trial teams.
 B. I have assisted co-workers on projects.
 C. I have volunteered for cross-functional projects.
 D. I have served as mentor to others.
 E. I have worked with my supervisor on various projects.


14.
Which of the following statements best describes your ability to communicate and convey information effectively to others?
 I have regularly briefed and presented materials to executive level officials, managers, or colleagues regarding administrative issues.
 I have experience briefing and presenting materials to executive level officials, managers, or colleagues regarding administrative issues.
 I have experience presenting materials to managers or colleagues regarding administrative issues.
 I have little experience presenting materials to high level officials, managers, or colleagues regarding administrative issues.
 None of the above.


15.
Which one of the following best describes your ability to independently organize, coordinate and prioritize a variety of activities?
 I have experience independently carrying out a variety of activities which require coordinating with other offices, coordinated work schedules to ensure adequate coverage, and setting priorities for completion of work.
 I have experience of carrying out a variety of activities with established priorities which require coordinating with other offices and providing directions to subordinate staff.
 I have experience carrying out activities which require coordinating with other offices and independently prioritizing workload.
 I have experience which requires organizing and prioritizing own workload.
 I have had formal education and/or training which demonstrates some possession of the above.
 I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my ability to independently organize, coordinate and prioritize a variety of activities.
 None of the above.


16.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙