Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13054932C-APN-0343-15 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AL1213) 417 20th St N, Birmingham, AL
 AB. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AR. (AZ0058) 300 W Congress, Tucson, AZ
 AS. (CA7803) 700 P St, Fresno, CA
 AT. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AU. (CA0273) 501 W Ocean Blvd, Long Beach, CA
 AV. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AW. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AX. (CA8050) 290 North D St, San Bernardino, CA
 AY. (CA6109) 701 B St, San Diego, CA
 AZ. (CA8207) 100 First St, San Francisco, CA
 BA. (CA6116) 55 S Market St, San Jose, CA
 BB. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 BC. (CT3323) 333 E River Dr, Hartford, CT
 BD. (CT0061) 150 Court St, New Haven, CT
 BE. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 BF. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 BG. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 BH. (FL2533) 1000 S Pine Island Rd, Plantation, FL
 BI. (FL2971) 2203 N Lois Ave, Tampa, FL
 BJ. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 BK. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 BL. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BM. (IA0112) 210 Walnut St, Des Moines, IA
 BN. (KY3123) 7300 Turfway Rd, Florence, KY
 BO. (KY0086) 600 Dr Martin L King, Louisville, KY
 B. (LA0034) 600 S. Maestri Place, New Orleans, LA
 C. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 D. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Road, Lanham-Seabrook, MD
 E. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 F. (MA0153) 10 Causeway, Boston, MA
 G. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 H. (MI2210) 3251 N Evergreen NE, Grand Rapids, MI
 I. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 J. (MS0083) 100 W Capitol, Jackson, MS
 K. (MO1840) 2345 Grand, Kansas City, MO
 L. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 M. (NE0051) 1616 Capitol Ave, Omaha, NE
 N. (NV7516) 110 N City Pkwy, Las Vegas, NV
 O. (NH6185) 75 Portsmouth Blvd, Portsmouth, NH
 P. (NJ4555) 1 Newark Center, Newark, NJ
 Q. (NM1464) 6200 Jefferson St NE, Albuquerque, NM
 R. (NY7340) 130 S Elmwood Ave, Buffalo, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Avenue, Holtsville, NY
 T. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 U. (NY6412) 1600 Stewart Ave, Westbury, NY
 V. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 W. (NC2668) 4905 Koger Blvd, Greensboro, NC
 X. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 Y. (OH0208) 200 N High St, Columbus, OH
 Z. (OH2320) 6450 Rockside Woods Blvd, Independence, OH
 AA. (OK1356) 55 N Robinson, Oklahoma City, OK
 AC. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 AD. (PA0277) 600 Arch St, Philadelphia, PA
 AE. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 AF. (SC0068) 1835 Assembly St, Columbia, SC
 AG. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AH. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 AI. (TX0227) 300 E Eighth St, Austin, TX
 AJ. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 AK. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AL. (TX2982) 8122 Datapoint Dr, San Antonio, TX
 AM. (UT1431)2484 S Washington Blvd, Ogden, UT
 AN. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AO. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AP. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AQ. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the [USER enter (BOD) names that are included in limitation] business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


13.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Specialized Experience GS-15:
You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include:
-    Maintaining technical authority and competence within assigned areas, subject matters, and/or programs. 
-    Directed others to implement new processes or programs after familiarizing and gaining proficiency with them.  
-    Negotiating with management to accept and implement recommendations where proposals involve organizational resources or updates to established procedures.
-    Leveraging organizational and management systems to analyze divergent programs to develop processes that impact organizational workflow.
-    Coordinating assignments internally and between organizational areas/divisions, including special cross-functional programs and projects as a principal advisor.
-    Providing technical guidance and advice on novel, controversial, or complex tax administration issues. 
-    Conducting the final review and approval for management on technical projects, policies, or processes that require executive-level approval.
-    Representing within Appeals and with other IRS business units on technical, administrative, and operational matters.
-    Adjust to shifting priorities while maintaining focus on commitments.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service maintaining technical authority and competence within assigned areas, subject matters, and/or programs?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service directed others to implement new processes or programs after familiarizing and gaining proficiency with them?

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service negotiating with management to accept and implement recommendations where proposals involve organizational resources or updates to established procedures?

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service leveraging organizational and management systems to analyze divergent programs to develop processes that impact organizational workflow?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service coordinating assignments internally and between organizational areas/divisions, including special cross-functional programs and projects as a principal advisor?

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service providing technical guidance and advice on novel, controversial, or complex tax administration issues?

 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service conducting the final review and approval for management on technical projects, policies, or processes that require executive-level approval?

 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service representing within Appeals and with other IRS business units on technical, administrative, and operational matters?

 Yes
 No


9.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service adjusting to shifting priorities while maintaining focus on commitments?

 Yes
 No


10.
Do you have experience leading or managing senior or executive level programs with responsibility over planning, coordinating, delivering and evaluating an organization's strategic plan and ensuring effective program management?

 Yes
 No


11.
Which of the following tasks have you completed when interacting with your work group.

 A. Captured business requirements/needs as the point of contact/subject matter expert for multi-area/division projects/programs.
 B. Researched technical matters to provide solutions to a strategic problem in an environment of limited resources.
 C. Recommended reasoned procedural improvements to next-level management.
 D. Reviewed and provided feedback/guidance on technical case work for areas of concern and/or additional questions.
 E. None of the above.


12.
Select the types of research and analysis tasks you have completed.

 A. Researched and analyzed information, data, requests, and/or situations and summarized findings as a briefing.
 B. Analyzed trends, discrepancies or gaps and made recommendations based on findings.
 C. Analyzed alternatives, considered resources, return on investment, and overall impact.
 D. Ran and completed a set of business measure reports for management review
 E. None of the above


13.
Identify the types of customers you have collaborated with in the development and delivery of a high-level strategic plan?

 A. Head of office, executives, senior managers and senior staff
 B. External customers and stakeholders (i.e., congressional liaisons, practitioner organizations).
 C. Co-workers, technical experts, and/or employees.
 D. Contractor and consulting teams.
 E. Direct Reports on a team under my leadership.
 F. Immediate supervisor.
 G. None of the above.


14.
Which best represents your experience with strategic planning.

 Advised or communicated a broad-scale strategic plan to high level executives and stakeholders.
 Designed and implemented a strategic plan across a division which required me to communicate and integrate goals cross-functionally.
 Effectively managed my own team or programs and consistently sought process improvements or achieved objectives
 Assisted in creating a strategic business plan and/or communicated strategic goals to employees and staff.
 None of the above


15.
Which of the following best describes your experience influencing or negotiating to arrive at a desired outcome?

 A. Participated in workgroup meetings and advocated for a position that was ultimately not adopted.
 B. Negotiated with others to obtain mutually agreeable solutions by resolving differences.
 C. Influenced decision makers to agree with a position by identifying the strength of one position over another position.
 D. Networked with others to build alliances to get others to accept my position.
 E. Influenced decisions that resulted in policy and/or established processes for new or existing programs.
 F. None of the above


16.
Do you have experience negotiating with multi-organizational, functional, and/or operational areas to assure functional plans meet expectations to achieve program goals?

 Yes
 No


17.
Select all the functions you have performed regarding strategic planning.

 A. Integrated the interests of key internal and external stakeholders when developing strategic business plans.
 B. Worked with division executives and senior leaders on strategic business plans
 C. Communicated strategic plans to management to increase ownership, buy-in and championing of the plan setting actionable items and deadlines.
 D. Familiarized employees with contents of a strategic plan to promote an understanding of the link between human resources initiatives and business goals.
 E. None of the above


18.
Which of the following have you done when determining the activities required to manage a functional or division level program or project?

 A. Identified the resources, human and technical required to deliver key programs or projects to meet goals.
 B. Created in-depth project schedules, identified required activities and timelines for major project deliverables associated with key programs or projects.
 C. Interviewed stakeholders to obtain business and/or technical communication needs and developed a strategy/plan for meeting those needs.
 D. Led a project team with breaking high-level requirements down into actionable tasks and assigned the resources necessary to complete the tasks and create feedback loops to monitor progress
 E. None of the above.


19.
Have you acted in a key role on a project management team that impacted the daily work process of your organization?

 Yes
 No


20.
Which one of the following best describes your level of experience supporting internal and external program activities of the Appeals organization?

 Advised senior managers, analysts and other personnel on program matters impacting the Appeals organization to promote maximum support for commitments and goals.
 Advised personnel on technical, procedural or administrative matters impacting the Appeals organization to promote maximum support for program goals.
 Worked as an analyst at the headquarters, functional, or area level, serving as a principal advisor impacting the Appeals organization to promote support for program goals.
 Worked on technical, procedural or administrative matters that impact program goals of the Appeals organization.
 None of the above


21.
Choose all the following that describe your experience with written communication?

 A. Writing executive messaging, briefings and high-level presentations.
 B. Responding to external inquiries (i.e. congressional, CFO, TIGTA, GAO, TAS, etc.).
 C. Writing white papers, reports or proposals.
 D. Preparing evaluative or feedback.
 E. Writing policies, technical guidance and IRMs.
 F. Writing training materials that are cleared, and published for formal classroom training
 G. Writing training materials for local workshops
 H. None of the above


22.
Select all of the following which describe your experience making or supporting decisions of a senior manager or executive.

 A. Supported leaders in making decisions involving complex tax, administration, policy or operational issues.
 B. . Coordinated issues, decisions or initiatives involving multiple functions, operations or organizations.
 C. Determined issues that require immediate attention from senior leaders
 D. Independently assessed complex or sensitive issues and determined what action, recommendation or elevation was appropriate.
 E. None of the above


23.
Which of the following describes your experience managing executive level decisions, action items, commitments and follow-ups across multiple organizational components?

 Tracked actions within my immediate office
 Tracked actions involving multiple individuals or teams
 Managed executive action items across multiple organizational components
 Managed high-priority executive commitments requiring coordination and accountability across functions or divisions.
 None of the above


24.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙