Position Title
Meteorologist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-26-12955449-ICTAP/CTAP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently serving as a NOAA Commissioned Officer under NOAA Coprs or have served and have been separated under honorable conditions?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former NOAA Corps Officer, you must submit a copy of your NOAA Form 56-16.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)? This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference.
Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
What meteorological phenomena are usually included in an aviation weather forecast?

 Wind speed and direction
 Hours of sunshine
 Tides, sea surface temperatures and costal erosion raters


2.
Which of the following is included in a fire weather forecast?

 Soil nitrogen levels
 Relative humidity
 Ozone concentration


3.
What is the best method to deal with uncertainty in a hydrologic forecast?

 Issue a single value forecast to avoid confusing decision makers
 Provide every possible forecast value based on multiple projections of rainfall amounts
 Utilizing probabilistic ensembles and communicating a range of possible outcomes


4.
Which of the following will assist emergency managers make decisions associated with weather or water phenomena that affect public safety?

 Providing clear and concise information on timing and intensity of thunderstorms associated with an advancing cold front
 Providing a broad overview of weather patterns over the next few months
 Providing all possible outcomes of the effects of heavy rainfall no matter what the likelihood of occurrence


5.
Developing relationships with the emergency management community allows a meteorologist to:

 Ensure no weather-related fatalities occur during a major weather event
 Understand the impact the meteorologist’s forecasts have on the emergency manager’s decision-making process
 Explore employment options in different occupational fields


6.
Satellite precipitation estimates can be useful in:

 Determining the amount of precipitation that has fallen over a given area
 The amount of river ice that will accumulate
 The accuracy of a river height gauge


7.
A climate record for a location is derived from:

 Consistent, accurate and quality-controlled data from a surface observing site
 Numerical model projections of future atmospheric conditions for a specific location
 Reports from mobile weather stations and social media storm spotters


8.
The best course of action to identify, solicit, and implement improvements to programs is:

 Relying solely on internal management reviews to maintain control over the process
 Implementing changes immediately as they are identified to ensure rapid progress
 Establishing a formal feedback loop that includes customers and fellow forecasters


9.
What is an effective method to evaluate the impact of a new forecasting procedure?

 Assuming the procedure is effective if no formal complaints are received
 Conducting a comparison of forecast accuracy and evaluating user decision making impact
 Relying on anecdotal feedback from social media users


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Meteorology Series, 1340 because I have:

 A Degree in meteorology, atmospheric science, or other natural science major that included: (1) At least 24 semester (36 quarter) hours of credit in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a) Six semester hours of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b) Six semester hours of analysis and prediction of weather systems (synoptic/mesoscale); c) Three semester hours of physical meteorology; and d) Two semester hours of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. (2) Six semester hours of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* (3) Three semester hours of ordinary differential equations.* (4) At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. * There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Meteorology Series, 1340.


2.
GS-09: In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Meteorologist, GS-1340-09 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Using state-of-the-art hydro-meteorological data to monitor a geographic area and assist in the preparation and issuance of warnings, advisories, outlooks and general forecasts for weather, water or climate hazards.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in Meteorology, Atmospheric Science or in a directly related field or 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙