Position Title
Data Scientist - Data Analyst (Direct Hire)
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12908266-26-DHA-RQ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. Oakland, CA
 D. San Diego, CA
 E. Denver, CO
 F. Washington, DC
 G. Atlanta, GA
 H. Chicago, IL
 I. Woodlawn, MD
 J. Boston, MA
 K. Detroit, MI
 L. Kansas City, MO
 M. New York, NY
 N. Queens, NY
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Dallas, TX


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
There is an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this position. Please select the statement that describes how you meet this educational requirement. You must submit proper transcripts to support your response, or you will be found ineligible.
 I have a degree in one or more of the following: Mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position. NOTE: Transcripts are required to substantiate claimed education.
 I have a combination of education and experience: I have completed courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours): mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 My education is not described above, I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this position.


2.

Do you have 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-13 level, or equivalent, which is in or related to the work of the position to be filled? Such experience must include:
(1) Providing technical expertise and direction in developing and refining studies involving large datasets comprised of messy data and statistical or machine learning analytical techniques and processes; AND
(2) Transforming unprocessed, incomplete, or unstructured data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS, or SQL; AND
(3) Conducting ad hoc and planned analyses of data using statistical techniques; AND
(4) Preparing talking points, issue briefs, and analytic summaries for technical and non-technical audiences.

 Yes, and I have clearly described ALL of this experience in my resume.
 No, I do not have all of the experience described above.


3.
I acknowledge that I have thoroughly read each question and answered all honestly and to the best of my ability.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙