Position Title
PRODUCTION CONTROLLER-TITLE 32
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
KY-1295799-AR-26-105 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AOC
1.
What is your current military grade?
E-1
E-2
E-3
E-4
E-5
E-6
E-7
E-8
E-9
W-1
W-2
W-3
W-4
W-5
O-1
O-2
O-3
O-4
O-5
O-6
O-7
O-8


2.
Are you a current federal employee/technician within Kentucky Army National Guard (T32 and T5, with permanent, conditional or indefinite tenure w/current Kentucky Army National Guard membership)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions to the best of your knowledge and ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience with planning, estimating, scheduling, and expediting the use of manpower, machines, and materials pertaining to repair operations?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience preparing job or work orders?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least 24 months experience scheduling various phases of projects into the production facility and following up to see if work is progressing as planned and arranging for adjustments in materials, machine processes, and work sequencing allowing for changes?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least 24 months experience with current automation support programs to input data, provide status of equipment, and monitor job order status, monitor work priorities, requisition repair parts, track repair parts status, etc?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.  I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731).  I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙