Position Title
Supervisory Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
DE-12858442-26-NZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glynco, GA
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Arlington, VA


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications: To be considered minimally qualified for this position, you must demonstrate that you meet the Basic Requirements, and possess the Specialized Experience for the grade level(s) to which you are applying.


1.
Applicants must meet one of the following basic requirements to qualify for GS-15. Select the statement below that best describes the experience you possess to meet the basic requirements for this position.

 I have completed all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher-level contracting positions, including at least 4-years experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position AND A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Applicants must submit a copy of their transcripts for verification).
 I have an exception to this requirement based on the following: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade.(Applicants must submit a copy of your SF-50(s) to verify).
 I do not have the education/training as described above.


2.
Applicants must have the specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for GS-15. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).
 I have at least one year (12-months) of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service that demonstrates my ability to: 1.) Planning, developing, and establishing both long- and short-range procurement and contracting approaches for acquisitions. 2.) Analyzing and interpreting data from procurement-related systems (e.g., contract writing system, Federal Procurement Data System Next Generation (FPDS-NG), Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS), etc.)) to drive operational improvements and strategic decision-making. 3.) Overseeing and ensuring proper execution of pre- and post-award procurement activities, including solicitation, evaluation, negotiation, and award of contracts in compliance with Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR). 4.) Providing authoritative guidance, problem resolution, and strategic recommendations personally and through subordinates to leadership and supervisors at all levels, addressing complex procurement challenges and ensuring alignment with organizational objectives. 5.) Serving as a warranted contracting officer with decision-making authority for significant procurement actions. (NOTE: Your resume must clearly demonstrate this experience).
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙