Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
CC-27-13086143
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 18, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Merit Hiring Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Conditions of Employment
1.
Thank you for applying for the Human Resources Specialist, NF-0201-04, position with Commander, Navy Installations Command (CNIC), Navy Region Southeast, Naval Air Station Corpus Christi, TX. By submitting your application, you acknowledge that you are applying for a Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) position with a salary range of $32.00 - $36.00 per hour ($66,784 - $75,132 annually) Please note that the salary offered is based on the qualifications and experience as reflected in your application and is non-negotiable outside of the stated range regardless of current salary/step within the federal government. For those positions that have a relocation authorized, please note, these payments are not processed until your first pay period onboard with the agency. They are not paid in advance. Do you agree?
 Yes
 No
2.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No
3.
You must be a U.S. citizen to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance. Are you a U.S. citizen?
 Yes
 No
Human Resources Specialist (GEN) Assessment
.
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Human Resources Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1.
Do you have at least four (4) years of specialized human resources (HR) experience (e.g. skill in applying HR principles, concepts, and practices, process personnel actions, prepare job descriptions and review qualification requirements) working in a Human Resources Office (HRO)?
 Yes, I possess at least four years of experience as stated above.
 No, I do not possess four years of experience as stated above, but I do possess a Ph. D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-graduate education leading to such degree in any field and my transcripts are attached.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as stated above, and I have included my transcripts.
 No, I do not possess the experience nor education as it relates to this position.
2.
My resume reflects experience in the following HR disciplines:
 Background and employment suitability checks
 Compensation and Benefits
 Employee Relations
 Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)
 Labor Relations
 Position Classification
 Recruitment and Staffing
 Staff Training and Development
 Succession planning
 Workforce planning and employment
 Workers Compensation
 Personnel File Management
 Employment Law/Legal Compliance
 Relocation/Permanent Change of Station (PCS)
 Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel
 None of the above
3.
Select ALL the Human Resources Information System(s) that you have utilized to include recruitment tools, payroll systems and background check programs, etc. Programs must be clearly listed in resume in order to receive credit for experience.
 SAP HR
 KRONOS
 ADP
 E-QIP
 FED HR
 USA Staffing
 Other System not listed
 N/A
4.
Please specify how many years of experience you have performing the following duties: preparing vacancy announcements, coordinating with recruitment sources to post announcements, evaluating candidate qualifications for vacancies, preparing certificates of eligible candidates for selecting officials, making job offers, and/or establishing reporting dates.
 I possess no experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess between three (3) and four (4) years of experience with the above mentioned.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience with the above mentioned.
5.
Please indicate your years of experience and proficiency in negotiation procedures and conflict resolution techniques, particularly as they relate to problem solving, advising management, and handling sensitive or highly contested case matters.
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I possess between three (3) and four (4) years of experience as described above.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience as described above.
6.
How many years' work experience do you have in composing correspondence and analyzing HR data for individuals, management officials, employees, other agencies, and/or insurance company staff members to ensure prompt processing of actions and dissemination of information?
 I possess no experience as described above.
 I possess less than one (1) year experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 I possess one (1) to three (3) years experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
 I possess more than three (3) years experience with analyzing HR data and composing HR correspondence.
