Position Title
FUL - Carpenter
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHR-26-13049937-FUL-EP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


3.
This job opportunity announcement is a "Shared Recruitment" between multiple bureaus within the Department of the Interior. Select each bureau you are willing to be considered for.

Note: You MUST select one or more bureau's to be considered for this position.
 A. Bureau of Indian Affairs
 B. Bureau of Indian Education
 C. Bureau of Land Management
 D. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
 E. Bureau of Reclamation
 F. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
 G. Bureau of Trust Funds Administration
 H. National Park Service
 I. Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
 J. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
 K. U.S. Geological Survey


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as: Surrounding local commuting area from the job announcement location(s).

Location(s): Philadelphia, Montgomery, Bucks, Delaware, Berks, Lancaster, Lehigh, Northampton, and Chester in Pennsylvania; Camden, Burlington, Gloucester, Salem, Cumberland, and Mercer in New Jersey; New Castle in Delaware; and Cecil in Maryland

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Carpenter, WG-4607-09, position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your to you experience and qualifications.


From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualifications for the Carpenter, WG-4607-09.


Ability to do the work without normal supervision (SCREEN OUT).


1.
1. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Carpenter, WG-4607-09. Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.
THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND INELIGIBLE FOR THIS POSITION OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 The extensive journey level carpenter work I have performed has been for building contractors, businesses, government agencies or working as an independent contractor for various projects. I have handled complex projects such as leading work on major features of a building; completion of an entire building; complex framing assignments; forming or pouring large concrete flat work; and pouring foundations or walls. I have performed difficult form work and installation of piping, conduit, or other block-outs requiring a high degree of accuracy. I have demonstrated extensive journey level work leading a project involving the replacement of a masonry foundation; replacement of failed frame members steel or wood; construction of roof systems. I have replaced masonry chimneys; rebuilt historic windows, doors and lock sets; framed in out-of-square or plumbed buildings; prepped walls and finished the trim all done with an eye for historic features and detail. I have also lead crews in at least one of these skilled areas: carpentry or concrete/masonry trades. I have extensive use, experience and can build using the Uniform Building Code and OSHA Standards. I have used and assisted crew members in the use of the National Fire Protection Code. I have maintained a safe worksite for other workers.
 The substantial journey level carpenter work I have performed has been for building contractors, businesses, government agencies or working as an independent contractor for various projects. I have had to handle complex projects such as working on major features of a building; completion of an entire building; complex framing assignments; forming or pouring large concrete flat work; and pouring foundations or walls. I have performed difficult form work and installation of piping requiring a high degree of accuracy. I have demonstrated extensive journeyman level work leading a project involving the replacement of a masonry foundation; replacement of failed frame members steel or wood; construction of roof systems; and replacement of plumbing in bathrooms. I have rebuilt historic windows, doors, structures/fixtures; lock sets; framing in out-of-square or plumb buildings and finished the trim. I have extensive use, experience and can build using these sources; the Uniform Building Code and OSHA Standards. I have maintained a safe worksite for other workers.
 I have journey level carpentry experience repairing a variety of building structures such as full door and window replacement, repairing a variety of roof coverings, replacing flooring or other journeyman level remodeling of bathrooms and kitchens. I have estimated material and equipment for construction projects. Safety has been a priority in all work assignments.
 I have some experience performing semi-skilled carpentry work such as assisting journey-level carpenters performing construction, modifications, or installation of building structures such as framework, rafters, window and door frames, flooring, or similar structures under closer supervision or instruction.
 I do not have any experience and/or training in carpentry work.


Verification 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙