Position Title
Financial Manager (Deputy Financial and Business Operations)
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-PH-26-13050987-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


6.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


8.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


10.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and are applying a for a promotion?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).



 Yes
 No


12.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position and have held a position at or above the target grade for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).


 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Financial Manager (Deputy, Financial & Business Operations) position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-03 or GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Developing, coordinating, integrating, and executing financial management policies, programs, and processes that support an organizations goals, missions, and objectives. Assisting in the development and implementation of strategic and tactical financial goals and objectives to ensure the agency's economic viability in both the short and long term. Directing the development of President Budget and Program Objective Memorandum (POM) products to determine resource requirements over the mid and long-term to perform an organizations mission. Assisting in the management of an organizations operations & maintenance, investment accounts, financial reporting and systems and audits. Supporting an organizations strategic planning processes with insights on resource implications and efficiencies, future workload, and customer priorities. Providing direction, maintaining ethical standards, and leading teams in executing complex contract management and operational responsibilities in a high-accountability Department of War (DoW) environment.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
What are three key components required to ensure success within the Agency's audit readiness program? Please select the best answer.
 Advanced financial software, automated data entry systems, and routine external consultant reviews.
 Strict adherence to annual budget execution timelines, rapid reconciliation of open obligations, and minimized carryover funds.
 Robust internal controls, comprehensive Key Supporting Documentation (KSD) retention, and continuous leadership engagement.
 Frequent policy revisions, localized standard operating procedures, and decentralized file storage.


3.
Please select the best response that describes developing, coordinating, integrating, and executing financial management policies for effective and efficient control and utilization.
 Monitoring daily expenditures, managing fund distributions, and enforcing administrative controls (such as the Anti-Deficiency Act) to prevent over-obligation of operational funds.
 Coordinating the deployment of enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems to standardize financial reporting, data integration, and automated policy compliance across the enterprise.
 Directly formulating, staffing, and enforcing financial policies to align resource allocation with strategic defense objectives, ensuring compliance, audit-ready, and optimized utilization of appropriations.
 Collaborating across components to transition strategic operational requirements into structured program objective memoranda (POM) and budget estimates.
 None of the above


4.
What is the first step required to develop, coordinate, integrate, and execute financial management programs?
 Identifying and defining strategic requirements and leadership objectives.
 Establishing automated internal controls and reporting workflows.
 Drafting detailed budget estimates and funding allocation tables.
 Publishing the final standard operating procedures (SOPs) and policy directives.
 None of the above


5.
How is a Program Objective Memorandum (POM) used to determine resource requirements?
 By automatically adjusting quarterly agency allotments based on real-time changes to national inflation rates.
 By translating strategic planning guidance and operational requirements into a structured, five-year resource plan (Future Years Defense Program) that balances mission priorities against fiscal constraints.
 By recording daily operational obligations and reconciling end-of-fiscal-year execution data to prevent fund over-obligation.
 None of the above


6.
How do the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 drive Federal financial management?
 By requiring agencies to eliminate all multi-year funding programs and operate strictly on one-year operational budgets.
 By transferring final budget appropriation authority from Congress to the executive agency heads based on quarterly audit results.
 By mandating that all federal agencies transition to a single, unified commercial accounting software to standardize daily transaction ledgers.
 By systematically linking federal funding levels to measurable program outcomes, requiring agencies to align their budget requests with strategic goals and annual performance plans.
 None of the above


7.
What is one of the key tenets of the Chief Financial Officers (CFO) Act of 1990.
 Track and report spending to taxpayers.
 Establish a risk management framework.
 Undergo and maintain an independent financial statement audit.
 Connecting execution review to the PPB process.


8.
Select the response that best describes an example of properly assessing and providing strategic direction for resolution of mission-critical problems, policies, and procedures.
 Analyzing organization-wide system failures, consulting key stakeholders, identifying root causes, and developing a structured action plan that aligns with long-term strategic goals.
 Responding quickly to mission-critical issues by assigning tasks to available staff without evaluating the underlying causes.
 Taking a hands-off approach to allow team members to resolve major operational challenges independently to build ownership and accountability.
 Focusing primarily on short-term fixes to minimize immediate downtime, postponing consideration of policy or procedural changes until later.


9.
If your DoD organization identified a significant budget shortfall that threatened continuation of several mission critical programs, briefly describe your mitigation strategy and how you would measure success?
 Prioritize programs, pause lower priority efforts, implement targeted cost reductions and select contract recompetes, seek limited reprogramming and O&M reprioritization, engage key industry partners for schedule relief.
 Implement a rapid, top-down rebase line effort, prioritizing mission critical capabilities, while instituting a temporary hiring/contract freeze, and reprogramming nonessential funds
 Immediately freeze all actions and institute a “salami slice” reduction across all remaining programs.
 Apply across the board spending reductions, defer noncritical procurements, request ad hoc reprogramming, and slide nonessential milestones.


10.
How do you most effectively motivate a team facing competing priorities and high workload?
 Set clear priorities, explain mission impact, and provide support/resources.
 Escalate all issues to senior leadership.
 Allow the team to self-manage without direction.
 Tell the team to push through without additional guidance.


11.
Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational
challenges? Choose the best answer.
 By maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 By providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 By coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 By not communicating with appropriate executives and partners to ensure policy and procedures are communicated (0)
 By assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts a criterion.


12.
Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or
Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial. Choose the best answer.
 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I do not adapt my communication style to the audience, nor do I maintain positive relationships with external stakeholders. I only communicate with internal stakeholders.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.


13.
How should a supervisor align team performance objectives with evolving agency priorities?
 Maintain prior goals to ensure stability.
 Adjust goals informally without documentation.
 Communicates revised priorities, update performance plans, and monitor progress.
 Wait for annual appraisal cycle.


14.
A team member repeatedly misses deadlines. What is the appropriate next step?
 Wait until formal discipline is required.
 Reassign all work permanently without addressing the cause.
 Ignore the issue and hope performance improves.
 Conduct a documented performance discussion with clear expectations.


15.
A project is behind schedule. What demonstrates accountability?
 Provide leadership with an accurate status and recovery plan.
 Assign blame externally.
 Direct overtime without explanation.
 Delay reporting to leadership until impacts become unavoidable.


16.
How should supervisors ensure accountability for critical work?
 Assume experienced staff will self-manage without oversight.
 Rely primarily on verbal confirmation.
 Establish clear ownership, implement review processes and verify completion.
 Only review after problems occur.


17.
Your team must adopt a new technology, but several employees lack the necessary skills. How do you proceed?
Choose the best answer.
 Share online resources and hope they review them.
 Conduct a skills assessment, create a structured training plan, provide hands-on practice, track progress, and adjust support as needed.
 Provide hands-on practice opportunities and monitor progress.
 Expect them to learn it on their own time.
 Arrange training sessions and encourage participation.


18.
What is the most appropriate way to support the development, growth and fairness of individual team members and
subordinates?
 Keep them in the same role to maintain stability.
 Limit additional responsibility.
 Use them only to train others.
 Provide equitable access to development opportunities based on documented performance, competencies, and organizational


19.
What best promotes continuous development in the workforce?
 Focus only on immediate operational tasks.
 Leave development optional.
 Provide structured learning and time to apply new skills.
 Discourage experimentation.


20.
A recurring problem persists. What should the supervisor do?
 Continue applying short term foxes to keep operations moving.
 Escalate the issue or reassign ownership without analysis.
 Address only the immediate incident and move on.
 Conduct a structured root-cause analysis and implement preventive actions.


21.
You must make a decision with limited information. What is the best approach?
 Use the best available data, evaluate risks, and choose the safest viable option while remaining ready to adjust.
 Make a decision primarily based on past experience or intuition.
 Seek consensus and delay the decision until more certainty is available.
 Postpone the decision until all information is available.


22.
Your team struggles to solve issues independently and frequently escalates minor problems. What is the most
effective problem-solving method that you should use? Choose the best answer.
 Build a problem-solving development program, provide coaching, create practice scenarios, reinforce critical thinking, and empower the team to resolve issues independently.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
 Handle all problems yourself to ensure they’re done correctly.
 Encourage the team to try harder before escalating.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.


23.
A policy change creates operational ambiguity for your team. What is the most effective response?
 Continue current practice until directed otherwise.
 Seek clarification, assess operational impact, and provide interim guidance.
 Pause operations.
 Let each team member interpret independently.


24.
After a major conflict is resolved, what actions help rebuild long term trust and team cohesion? Select all that apply.
 Reinforce shared goals and team identity.
 Conduct follow-up check-ins to ensure issues remain resolved.
 Avoid discussing the conflict again to prevent reopening wounds.
 Recognize positive collaboration behaviors as they emerge.


25.
How should supervisors manage technical disagreements?
 Minimize communication to avoid friction.
 Encourage open discussion and define escalation paths.
 Avoid direct involvement unless the issue escalates.
 Let the loudest voice decide.


26.
If two employees are upset because they believe workload assignments are unfair. What would your response be to
these employees? Choose the best answer.
 Meet with both employees, discuss workload criteria, and adjust assignments transparently. (3)
 Review workload data, involve employees in discussing expectations, adjust assignments, and implement a clear, equitable workload distribution process.
 Tell them, “That’s just how it is” and move on.
 Explain that you’ll try to balance things better next time.


27.
Two high-performing employees have ongoing interpersonal tension affecting productivity. What is the most
appropriate supervisory response?
 Separate assignments permanently.
 Address concerns individually and facilitates a mediated discussion.
 Ignore because performance is still acceptable.
 Issue a general reminder about professionalism.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙