Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12961611-AF-26-111 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 139th Airlift Wing in St. Joseph, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 139th Airlift Wing in St. Joseph, Missouri.
 Permanent National Guard Title 32 employee currently working for the 139th Airlift Wing in St. Joseph, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 32 employee currently working for the 139th Airlift Wing in St. Joseph, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, training, and/or education that demonstrates judgment and/or analytical ability, and experience using computer and automated systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possesses one year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the GS 09 grade level that includes identifying activities involving logistical support operations; experience integrating the actions of a variety of specialized support activities in order to develop a comprehensive logistics plan; experience monitoring program planning, resource and fiscal management; training, manpower management, and/or automated data processing; and experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions?
 Yes
 No


3.
In detail, explain your experience providing continuous guidance and instruction to units on Contingency Operations/Mobility Planning and Executive Systems (COMPES), Logistic Detail-Base Level (LOGDET-B) data and Manpower/ Personnel Module-Base Level (MANPER-B) matters.


4.
In detail, explain your experience planning and developing deployment training for the wing and units in addition to conducting training.


5.
In detail, explain your experience reviewing deployment assessment capabilities with unit commanders to ensure that required deployment training is being conducted.


6.
In detail, explain your experience determining availability of personnel and equipment for tasking and manages the War Reserve Material (WRM) assets at home station and deployed locations for units.


7.
In detail, explain your experience monitoring the status of the logistical readiness of the unit and determines deviations in the total logistical posture.


8.
In detail, explain your experience monitoring and evaluating support agreements between units and host agencies and assists with accomplishing required agreements to support the wing mission.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from  further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙