Position Title
Foreman I Powerplant
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVI-26-13059674-DE-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Foreman I, Powerplant position with Bureau of Reclamation. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one response that describes your highest journeyman or engineering experience in a powerplant (greater than 1 MW) without more than normal supervision. Your response below must be fully supported in your resume or you will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have experience as a journeyman in at least one of the following crafts or occupations: Electrician, Powerplant Operator, Communications & Instrumentation Mechanic, or Plant Mechanic. I also have work experience in two additional crafts outlined above.
 I have experience as a journeyman in at least one of the following crafts or occupations: Electrician, Communications & Instrumentation Mechanic, Powerplant Operator, or Plant Mechanic. I also have work experience in one additional craft outlined above.
 I have experience as a journeyman in at least one of the following crafts or occupations: Electrician, Communications & Instrumentation Mechanic, Powerplant Operator, or Plant Mechanic.
 I have journeyman experience in industrial maintenance.
 None of the above.


2.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a journeyman level Electrician without more than normal supervision.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have experience in an industrial setting which demonstrates my skill to perform electrical work on equipment rated above 600V, which involves installing, testing, maintaining, repairing and/or troubleshooting of electrical equipment with limited supervision.
 I have experience working in a powerplant (greater than 5 MW) that is connected to an independent electrical power transmission grid which demonstrates my skill to perform work on electrical equipment. My experience includes the installation, testing, maintenance, repair, and troubleshooting of electrical equipment under intermittent supervision.
 I have experience working in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1 MW) that demonstrates my skill to independently handle complex problems on electrical equipment. My experience includes installing, maintaining, testing, repairing, and troubleshooting electrical equipment.


3.
Select the response that describes your level of experience, education, or training as a journeyman level Powerplant Operator without more than normal supervision

 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions as an authorized employee: An employee who works under hazardous energy controls in order to perform servicing or maintenance on machinery or equipment.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions as a Job Supervisor: An employee who has been authorized to request, accept, and release clearances and hot line orders, and to initiate and implement Hazardous Energy Work Permits (HEWP). Job Supervisors must have the knowledge and skills necessary for the safe application, use, and removal of hazardous energy control procedures.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions as an Operation Supervisor as a subject matter expert: An employee who has been authorized to prepare and direct switching, and to issue, receive, and release clearances, hot line orders, interconnected system clearances, and interconnected system hot line orders.


4.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a journeyman level Communications & Instrumentation Mechanic without more than normal supervision.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have experience in an industrial setting which demonstrates my skill to perform work on electronic equipment which involved, installing, testing, maintaining, repairing and/or troubleshooting of electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, VHF radios, programmable logic controllers, metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment, with no more than normal supervision.
 I have experience working in a powerplant (other than a hydroelectric plant) or large industrial plant, which demonstrates my skill to perform complex work on electronic equipment which includes, installation, testing, maintenance, repair and troubleshooting of electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, VHF radios, programmable logic controllers, metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment, with limited or no supervision.
 I have experience working in a hydroelectric powerplant which demonstrates my skill to independently handle complex problems on electronic equipment which includes, independently installing, maintaining, testing, repairing and troubleshooting electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, VHF radios, programmable logic controllers, metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment.


5.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a journeyman level Plant Mechanic without more than normal supervision.

 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have experience in an industrial setting which demonstrates my skill to perform plant mechanic work on equipment such as pumps, generators, gates, valves, cranes, air compressors and various hydraulic systems. I worked as a Mechanic, Machinist, Pipefitter, Welder, Crane Operator/Rigger, or Millwright in this experience. Such work included maintaining, troubleshooting and/or repairing of equipment with limited supervision.
 I have experience in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW) which demonstrates my skill to independently handle complex mechanical problems on plant equipment such as hydroturbines and/or pumps, governors, air compressors, motors, etc. I worked as a Plant Mechanic or Machinist performing these duties. Such work included installing, maintaining, testing, troubleshooting, and repairing mechanical equipment.


6.
Select the response that best describes your experience leading or supervising trade and craft employees in performing operations or maintenance tasks in a hydroelectric or industrial facility.

 I have experience training helpers, apprentices or intermediate trade and craft employees in performing operations or maintenance tasks.
 I am often designated by my supervisor to lead or supervise a small group of trade and craft employees to accomplish an operations or maintenance project.
 I have served as the leader over trade and craft employees on a regular basis to accomplish multiple, on-going operations or maintenance projects.
 I have served as the supervisor over trade and craft employees and have planned, scheduled, managed, and budgeted for the accomplishment of multiple, on-going operations or maintenance projects. I have set project milestones, goals, work expectations; approved leave, overtime, training, established performance standards, evaluated employees, interviewed, selected employees; and effected disciplinary measures.
 I have not performed these job functions.


7.
Select the one response that best describes your overall technical experience in all aspects of operation and maintenance of dams, powerplants, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities.

 I have experience, and am considered an expert, performing operation and maintenance work associated with dams, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities that utilize electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate pumps, gates, and valves to lift, convey, and transport water at high rates of delivery and large volumes (dams, pumping plants, and canals with capacity of 250 cubic feet per second (CFS) or larger).
 I have experience performing operation and maintenance work associated with dams, pumping plants, canals, and water conveyance facilities that utilize electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment to operate pumps, gates, and valves to lift, convey, and transport water (dams, pumping plants, and canals with capacity of 250 cubic feet per second (CFS) or larger).
 I have experience performing operation and maintenance work of similar facilities that are smaller in scale in terms of rate of delivery and volume (capacity less than 250 CFS) that use electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 I have experience performing operation and maintenance work on facilities that transport water or other fluids through open or closed systems using electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic equipment.
 I have education and training in operation and maintenance of water conveyance facilities.
 None of the above


8.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.

 I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant (greater than 200 CFS capacity), and verified the clearance boundary.
 I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.


9.
I have used OSHA 29 CFR 1910.147 and/or .269 based hazardous energy control procedures.

 Yes
 No


10.
Have you worked in confined spaces?

 Yes
 No


11.
Select the response that describes your level of experience, education or training in interpreting and utilizing operating instructions, equipment manuals, piping diagrams, wiring diagrams, safe clearance (lock out/tag out) procedures, blueprints (electrical and mechanical), reading and interpreting manufacturer's instructions and other technical manuals to operate equipment associated with a powerplant facility, etc.

 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of operating an industrial facility.
 I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently and routinely and have carried them out successfully.


12.
Select the response that describes your highest level of experience, education or training in reading and interpreting drawings to operate equipment associated with a powerplant facility or similar Industrial facility.

 I have not performed these job functions.
 I have received post high school education or formal training in these functions, but I have not performed them on the job.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions.
 I have performed these functions independently as a regular part of my job duties.
 I am highly skilled at performing these functions. I have performed them independently, routinely and have carried them out successfully.


13.
From the following list, select all of the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures that you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment.

 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (Lockout/Tagout)
 C. Switchman and Authorized Personnel Certification
 D. Basic Electricity in the Workplace
 E. Hearing Conservation
 F. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 G. Confined Space
 H. Spill Prevention
 I. Fire Extinguishers
 J. Emergency Response Planning
 K. Personal Fall Protection
 L. Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 M. First Aid
 N. Hazardous Waste
 O. Asbestos Awareness
 P. Workplace Safety and Health Inspections
 Q. Reclamation Safety & Health Standards (RSHS)
 R. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA)
 S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Standards
 T. Defensive Driving
 U. Hazard Identification
 V. Emergency Communications Systems
 W. Electrical Safety, including National Electric Code
 X. None of the above


14.
Select the powerplant equipment you have operated or used in a professional (commercial or industrial) work environment.

 A. Powerplant recorders and gauges
 B. Communications equipment, including radio and telephone procedures
 C. Alarm systems
 D. Generators
 E. Exciters
 F. Voltage regulators
 G. Power circuit breakers
 H. Power transformers
 I. Pumps
 J. Compressors
 K. Electric motors
 L. Auxiliary electrical and/or mechanical equipment
 M. Governors
 N. Load and frequency controllers
 O. Unit start-stop- local manual
 P. Unit start-stop- local automatic
 Q. Unit start stop- remote automatic
 R. Unit and line relaying
 S. Motor-generator sets
 T. Emergency diesel generators
 U. Manual generator synchronizers
 V. Manual switching (Dead Bus and Cross-Tie) of electrical distribution
 W. Sync-check switching (Dead Bus and Cross-Tie) of electrical distribution
 X. None of the above


15.
Select the response(s) that describes your experience leading others.

 A. Ensuring all materials are procured and accessible
 B. Ensuring all equipment required is serviceable and available
 C. Preparing requisitions
 D. Preparing material and labor estimates
 E. Identifying safety requirements
 F. Developing job hazard analysis
 G. Determining materials and supplies needed for a particular assignment
 H. None of the above


16.
Select the response that describes your experience, education, or training relative to powerplant emergency/abnormal conditions and the use of emergency/abnormal procedures.

 I have directed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have directed or conducted training for emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions as directed.
 I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have been trained in the use of emergency/abnormal response procedures.
 I have no experience with powerplant emergency/abnormal response actions.


17.
Select the response that describes your experience utilizing safety operating documentation, procedures, rules, guidance, and standards to determine methods to resolve conflicting or unclear requirements.

 I have not performed this task and I have not had education or training in performing this task.
 I have had training or education above high school in performing this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job at some point in my career.
 I currently perform this task on the job, and it has been a regular and recurring duty for at least 12 consecutive months.
 I currently perform this task on the job, it has been a regular and recurring duty for at least 12 consecutive months, and I have provided advice or input to other operators.


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙