Position Title
Store Manager
Agency
Defense Commissary Agency
Announcement Number
DECA-26-CCP-12847729-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 14, 2025 to Jan 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Maxwell AFB, AL
Redstone Arsenal, AL
Eielson AFB, AK
Anchorage Area AK, Elmendorf AFB, AK
Fort Greely, AK
Kodiak, AK
Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
Luke AFB, AZ
Little Rock AFB, AR
Barstow, CA
Beale AFB, CA
Camp Pendleton, CA
China Lake, CA
El Centro, CA
Los Angeles AFB, El Segundo, CA
March AFB, CA
Miramar MCAS, Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, CA
McClellan, CA
North Island NAS, Naval Air Station San Diego, CA
Port Hueneme, CA
San Diego NB, San Diego County, CA
Travis AFB, CA
Buckley AFB, CO
Fort Carson, CO
Peterson AFB, CO
Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling, DC
Eglin AFB, FL
Jacksonville, FL
Key West, FL
MacDill AFB, FL
Whiting Field NAS, Milton, FL
Patrick AFB, FL
Pensacola, FL
Albany, GA
Fort Moore, Fort Benning, GA
Fort Gordon, GA
Fort Stewart, GA
Robins AFB, GA
Andersen Air Base, GU
Orote, Santa Rita, GU
Hickam AFB, HI
Kaneohe Bay, Kaneohe, HI
Pearl Harbor, HI
Schofield Barracks, HI
Mountain Home AFB, ID
Rock Island County, IL
Scott AFB, IL
Harrison Village, Fort Ben Harrison, IN
Fort Leavenworth, KS
Fort Riley, KS
Fort Campbell, KY
Fort Knox, KY
Bangor, ME
Aberdeen Proving Ground, MD
Andrews AFB, MD
Fort Meade, MD
Columbus AFB, MS
Keesler AFB, MS
Meridian, MS
Fort Leonard Wood, MO
Belton, Richards-Gebaur AFB, MO
Offutt AFB, NE
Fallon, NV
Nellis AFB, NV
Lakehurst, NJ
McGuire AFB, NJ
Picatinny Arsenal, NJ
Cannon AFB, NM
Kirtland AFB, NM
White Sands Missile Range, NM
Mitchell AFB, NY
Saratoga Springs, NY
Camp Lejeune, NC
Fort Bragg North/South, Fort Bragg, NC
Grand Forks AFB, ND
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
Altus AFB, OK
Fort Sill, OK
Tinker AFB, OK
Vance AFB, OK
Pittsburgh Area, Moon, PA
Tobyhanna, PA
Fort Buchanan, PR
Charleston AFB, SC
Fort Jackson, SC
Charleston NWS, Goose Creek, SC
Arnold AFB, TN
Corpus Christi, TX
Dyess AFB, TX
Fort Bliss, TX
Fort Hood I/II, Fort Hood, TX
Fort Sam Houston, TX
Goodfellow AFB, TX
Lackland AFB, TX
Laughlin AFB, TX
Randolph AFB, TX
Hill AFB, UT
Dahlgren, VA
Fort Belvoir, VA
Fort Eustis, VA
Fort Lee, VA
Fort Myer, VA
Langley AFB, VA
Little Creek Amphibious Base, VA
Norfolk, VA
Quantico, VA
Oceana NAS, Virginia Beach, VA
Fort Lewis, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA
Smokey Point, Marysville, WA
McChord AFB, WA
Fort McCoy, WI
FE Warren AFB, Warren AFB, WY
Cairo, Egypt
Garmisch, Germany
Kaiserslautern, Germany
Ramstein, Germany
Spangdahlem, Germany
Stuttgart, Germany
Vogelweh Army Installation, Germany
Sigonella Sicily, Italy
Atsugi Naval Air Facility, Japan
Camp Foster, Japan
Camp Kinser, Japan
Iwakuni Marine Corps Air Station, Japan
Kadena Air Base Okinawa, Japan
Sagamihara, Japan
Hario, Sasebo, Japan
Yokosuka, Japan
Schinnen, Netherlands
Lajes (azores), Portugal
Camp Humphreys, South Korea
Osan, South Korea
Yongsan, South Korea
Incirlik, Turkey
Alconbury, United Kingdom
Croughton, United Kingdom
Lakenheath, United Kingdom
Menwith Hill, United Kingdom


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
10
11
12


Announcement Screen-out
1.
Are you able to frequently lift, push, pull, carry, or handle products weighing up to 40 pounds without assistance, and occasionally more than 40 pounds with assistance?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to perform duties involving prolonged standing, stooping, kneeling, bending, climbing and walking?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
8.
In produce display, "family grouping" refers to the practice of:
 Placing the most expensive items together.
 Merchandising all similar items (e.g., leafy greens) together on the sales floor.
 Arranging produce by color for visual appeal.
 Stacking items in large, multi-level displays.


9.
A new produce clerk is struggling to correctly rotate perishable stock. What is the best action for the manager to take?
 Reprimand the employee and assign them a different task.
 Have a senior team member do the stock rotation instead.
 Provide specific, hands-on training and constructive feedback to address the performance gap.
 Let the employee figure it out on their own.


Manage a Meat Department in a retail grocery store.



10.
What is the "temperature danger zone" for food?
 32°F to 40°F (0°C to 4°C)
 41°F to 135°F (5°C to 57°C)
 140°F to 165°F (60°C to 74°C)
 165°F and above (74°C and above)


11.
When operating a bandsaw, a meat manager should always use a:
 Metal spatula
 Pushing guard
 Bare hand for precision
 Knife handle


Manage a Grocery Department in a retail grocery store.



12.
What is a planogram?
 A sales forecast for a specific product.
 A graphical representation of a store's overall layout.
 A diagram showing where and how specific products should be placed on a shelf.
 A report on inventory turnover for a specific category.


13.
When allocating shelf space, retailers often consider an item's inventory turnover. How does a high inventory turnover affect space allocation?
 It requires less shelf space to reduce inventory costs.
 It requires more shelf space because the product sells quickly.
 It requires equal shelf space regardless of sales volume.
 It means the item should be placed on the bottom shelf.


14.
If a popular, seasonal item is consistently out of stock during peak demand. What action should the manager take to optimize the reorder point?
 Increase the order frequency and quantity based on historical sales data from the same period last year.
 Keep the reorder point the same to avoid overstocking and potential waste.
 Negotiate with the vendor to get a higher volume discount for next year's season.
 Order as much as possible to create a large backstock for the entire year.


15.
A health inspector points out a refrigeration unit in the dairy section that is running at a temperature higher than the legal limit. What is the manager's most appropriate immediate action?
 Call a repair technician to fix the unit as soon as possible.
 Move all products from the faulty unit to a functioning one and mark any impacted product as waste if necessary.
 Lower the thermostat on the unit and hope it begins working properly.
 Wait until the end of the day to address the problem, as other tasks are a higher priority.


Manage Front-end Department in a retail grocery store.



16.
When preparing for end-of-day closing, the POS system's cash-up report does not match the total physical cash in the till. What is the most important technical procedure to follow?
 Tell the cashier to re-count the cash to find the error.
 Immediately adjust the digital report to match the physical cash count.
 Run a detailed report showing all transactions, voids, and cash drops for the shift.
 Document the discrepancy and forward it to corporate accounting.


17.
After cleaning a slicer, what is the next step to ensure it is properly sanitized?
 Rinse the slicer with cold water.
 Wipe it down with a dry cloth.
 Apply a sanitizer solution according to the manufacturer's directions.
 Let it dry air without further treatment.


18.
What is the correct protocol for cleaning and sanitizing meat department equipment, such as a band saw or meat grinder? (Select all that apply)
 A. Turn off and unplug the equipment and then disassemble it completely.
 B. Wash all parts with hot soapy water using brushes to remove debris and rinse with clean water.
 C. Sanitize the parts using a food-grade sanitizing solution.
 D. Allow equipment and its parts to air-dry completely in a well-ventilated area before reassembly.
 E. None of the above.


19.
Which inventory management technique is most crucial for minimizing waste in a produce department?
 Just-In-Time (JIT) delivery.
 Last-In, First-Out (LIFO).
 First-In, First-Out (FIFO).
 Cycle counting.


20.
What is the primary purpose of conducting a regular inventory count in the meat department?
 To increase the average customer ticket size.
 To track stock levels, reduce waste, and manage costs.
 To identify the best-selling cuts of meat.
 To set a new pricing strategy.


21.
During a physical inventory count, you discover a discrepancy between the shelf count and the system count for a high-value product. What is your first step?
 Adjust the inventory count in the system to match the physical count.
 File a report for inventory shrinkage with loss prevention.
 Investigate potential causes, such as receiving errors, misplaced products, or theft, before making a system adjustment.
 Reprimand the stock team for the inaccurate count.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙