Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SH12854104 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Jan 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Nashville, TN
 C. Plano, TX or, Beaumont, TX
 D. Houston, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess a law degree from a School of Law accredited by the American Bar Association? (Transcripts are required to substantiate possession of the required education).

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a member in good standing of the Bar of a State, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico? This is a continuing requirement of the position. (Applicants must provide current proof that they are authorized to practice law.)

 Yes
 No


3.
If you are applying for the GS-13 position, do you have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level that is typically in or related to the position and which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties described in the announcement? Such experience includes 3 years of professional legal experience working as a licensed attorney with at least one year of this experience being equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are applying for the GS-14 position, do you have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level that is typically in or related to the position and which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties described in the announcement? Such experience includes 4 years of professional legal experience working as a licensed attorney with at least one year of this experience being equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙