Position Title
Financial Administrative Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-12970567-26-REP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Financial Administrative Specialist, GS-07/09 grade level, with the Department of Veterans Affairs. We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and/or education and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the area of consideration. This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees. Select the one response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for this position.



1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for this position.
 Yes, I am a current, Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee.
 Yes, I am a current or former Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee who is CTAP eligible and I will submit my CTAP supporting documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 Neither A or B applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the Time-In-Grade requirement. Note: Not all eligibilities are required to meet Time-In-Grade. This does not apply to Non-Federal Applicants, or applicants applying for consideration under any other special hiring authority, if this does not apply to you, please select "B" for Not Applicable.


TIME-IN-GRADE requirement for applicants who are/were federal employees: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 Notice of Personnel Action (not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. The SF-50 must include your position title, series, grade, step, tenure (1 or 2), and type of service (Competitive or Excepted).



2.
For GS-7: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your Time-In-Grade:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-05 grade level or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-05 grade level or higher.
 Neither A or B applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


3.
For GS-9: Please select the response below that most accurately describes your Time-In-Grade:
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level or higher.
 Neither A or B applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:  The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.



4.
From the choices below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for the Financial Administrative Specialist at the GS-07 level.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-05, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: Reviewing vouchers submitted for payment on behalf of the office and researching a variety of financial data, reports, or resources.
 I have 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education described in "B", but I have a combination of the type of education described in "A" and the kind of experience described in "B." To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify at the GS-07. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
From the choices below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for the Financial Administrative Specialist at the GS-09 level.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-07, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: Using accounting and auditing policies, procedures, and principles sufficient to identify financial problems, discrepancies, overpayments, underpayments, or erroneous data and using computer applications to work with accounts payable and receivables.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education described in "B", but I have a combination of the type of education described in "A" and the kind of experience described in "B." To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify at the GS-9. Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.



6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙