Position Title
Civil Engineer-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-081003-12852085-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Jan 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a CIVIL ENGINEER, NH-0810-03. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your education and/or experience as relevant to the position of CIVIL ENGINEER, NH-0810-03. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have successfully completed: a full 4-year engineering program leading to a Bachelor’s degree in professional engineering in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering program. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a Bachelor’s degree in engineering that included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in the basic requirements as specified in B above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate scientific field e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, that may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least one year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. NOTE: You must submit evidence of passing the examination.
 I have a current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. NOTE: You must submit copies of your current registration.
 I do not meet any of the requirements stated above.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of CIVIL ENGINEER, NH-0810-03. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-11), level, pay band (NH-02), or equivalent (pay schedule, pay band, etc). Specialized experience is described as professional knowledge of a broad range of civil engineering concepts, principles, and practices and extensive familiarity with other engineering disciplines and architecture.
 I do not have the experience such as described in A above.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙