Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-EDU-13027968-26-JW-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who:

• formerly occupied a career or career conditional position at the VA within the preceding two years before applying for reemployment at VA; AND,
• voluntarily departed such position, or was subject to a reduction in force, and had a satisfactory performance record while occupying such position; AND,
• since departing VA has maintained licensing requirements, related to the position, if any, and gained skills, knowledge, or other factors related to the position; AND,
• possesses at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position sought?

Appointment under this authority is exempt from competitive examining procedures and Veteran's preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in P.L. 115-46, VA Choice and Quality Employment Act of 2017, section 204.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, certifying your documented disability and eligibility under Schedule A.

 Yes
 No


9.
Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field box 24. is 1 or 2); AND, 
your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field box 34. is 1).
highest grade previously held (Grade or Level field box 18.)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Buffalo, NY
 E. Muskogee, OK


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. AOC Instructions: This vacancy is opened ONLY to Agency Employees (Department of Veterans Affairs), T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP), T5 Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP), T5 Land Management (Land Mgmt), T5 Transfer, T5 Reinstatement,  and T5 Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA).


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for the Management & Program Analyst, GS-0343-13.
 I am currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who: ? was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND, ? served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND, ? performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND, ? if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing? To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran, AND you: served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR, are entitled to veterans' preference; OR, are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form. *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 I am currently employed as a civilian employee in competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs and qualify to be transferred.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility under the Area of Consideration. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions.


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 or held the GS-13 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-12 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.


3.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-0343-13 Management & Program Analyst (Change Management).

Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
Specialized experience is defined as experience demonstrating all of the following:
- Experience in developing, communicating, branding, and improving agency-level strategic communication and messages.
- Experience in developing and implementing change management strategies and plans.
- Experience in developing performance metrics and evaluating the effectiveness of change management.
- Experience in preparing executive level briefings, reports, and presentations to support leadership decisions making.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙