Position Title
Attorney Advisor
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12882663-26-FM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


2.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?

 Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do NOT possess this education.


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded (MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia).



3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S., or the District of Columbia?

 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar.


4.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA).



5.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-12 position.
 Yes, I have 1 full year (12 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Monitoring and examining formal filings for legal sufficiency and reviewing submissions from party representatives to ensure procedural requirements are met; Developing and preparing interpretive and administrative documents under relevant statutes and regulations; and demonstrating a commitment to personal and organizational success. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


6.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-13 position.
 Yes, I have 2 full years (24 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Drafting legal memoranda, opinions, decisions, briefs, or other legal documents. issues with other components; providing legal advice, analysis, and recommendations on complex legal matters; reviewing and evaluating cases, records, or legal documents for legal sufficiency; AND researching, analyzing, and interpreting statutes, regulations, case law, and agency policies. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


7.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-14 position.
 Yes, I have 3 full years (36 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Managing litigation matters, including developing litigation strategy, coordinating agency resources, drafting pleadings, responding to discovery, and negotiating settlements; Researching, analyzing, and interpreting statutes, regulations, case law, and policy with significant programmatic or legal impact; Preparing oral and written legal opinions and analysis responding to the legal and policy questions raised and emphasizing key legal issues; AND Representing or serving as lead counsel for the agency or program in legal proceedings, hearings, appeals, or negotiations. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙