Position Title
Supervisory Licensing Examining Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13020319-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:

- Applying administrative laws, procedures, regulations, or guidelines concerning sanctions programs and licensing actions. Examples of this could include applying sanctions regulations to commercial or financial transactions, blocked assets, or humanitarian issues. It could also include analyzing issues (including questions of law and fact), developing findings of fact, and developing conclusions by applying regulatory requirements to determine the appropriate response to inquiries concerning licensing actions involving policy-sensitive trade or financial issues.; AND
- Evaluating current and proposed policies and programs to identify problems or areas that need improvement and recommending solutions or changes for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency.; AND
- Directing the work of subordinate staff. This could include but is not limited to assigning work, developing performance standards, establishing priorities, reviewing work products, identifying deficiencies, mentoring staff, fostering professional development, providing technical guidance, or evaluating the performance of subordinate employees.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.
 I fully meet all aspects of the GS-14 level of specialized experience as defined above.
 I do not meet or exceed the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.


2.
Please indicate where in your resume this experience can be found. (250 Character Limit)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙