Position Title
Maintenance Worker (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13046668-DE-AMA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Local Field Unit Hiring Authority
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for Pullman National Historic Park is defined as a 50-mile radius from Chicago, Illinois. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised? If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Maintenance Worker position. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully read the instructions before submitting your responses. The resume or application materials you submit must support the answers you provide on the questionnaire. If they do not, you may be found not qualified.


Ability To Do The Work Of The Position Without More Than Normal Supervision (SCREEN OUT)


1.
From the descriptions below select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision for the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-5 position. Experience must be demonstrated in two or more of the following trades:
Carpentry - constructs, installs, repairs and replace items such as doors, shelves, etc.
Painting - preparing surfaces, determine painting materials to be used and method of application, and painting a variety of surfaces
Plumbing - replace various valves, unions, elbows, fixtures, toilets, faucets, and various types of pipe and copper lines, cut and thread pipes, winterize water systems, etc.
Electrical - repairs including removing, replacing, tightening, splicing, and insulating defective wiring and fixtures
Masonry - maintenance, measures, determines amount of concrete, sets forms, pours and finishes concrete to blueprint standards and project specifications
General Maintenance - performs basic maintenance and repair work on buildings, facilities, grounds, and site features, including minor repairs to doors, windows, fences, signs, walkways, fixtures, and other structures; replaces hardware and damaged components; and performs routine upkeep to maintain facilities in safe and serviceable condition.
 I am able to independently perform the full range of maintenance worker duties in two or more of the trades described above. I have performed these duties on my own initiative with only general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I am able to troubleshoot and take initiative to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of a variety of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than two areas. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous work as required by the position. I possess the ability to use a computer, maintain records, and perform simple arithmetic calculations.
 I am able to perform common maintenance worker duties associated with two or more of the trades described above. I take initiative to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than two areas. I have the ability to create material lists related to labor and costs of maintenance projects. Tasks assigned to me are inspected upon completion by my work leader or supervisor for conformance to requirements. I am able to perform strenuous work as required by the position. I possess the ability to use a computer, maintain records, and perform simple arithmetic calculations.
 I am able to perform most maintenance worker duties in two or more of the trades described above. I have performed these duties under close supervision and subject to frequent inspection. I am able to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of a variety of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than one area. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous work as required by the position. I possess the ability to use a computer, maintain records, and perform simple arithmetic calculations.
 I do not possess the experience/skills as described above


2.
Application Verification

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙