Position Title
Supervisory Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12895337-26-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Therapeutic Radiologic Technologist GS-12 position with the Washington VA Medical Center. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, please note that your experience and education are subject to verification through investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Requirements: To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please indicate Yes or No to the following questions:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education.
Individuals must have successfully completed a program in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's or higher degree accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology or other accrediting bodies recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (ED) and the subsequent completion of a 12-month ED accrediting body-approved program in therapeutic radiologic technology.

Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 C.F.R. Part 75. They must have successfully completed an educational program meeting or exceeding the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the ED, and be radiation therapists certified by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (T).

Have you completed one of the Education requirements as described above?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation (Transcripts/Certificate) to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Certification.
All applicants must be certified in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T)).

Do you hold a current certification in Therapeutic Radiologic Technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T))?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide your Certified Therapeutic Radiologic Technology by the ARRT in Radiation Therapy (ARRT (T)) certification information.
Name on Certification:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Initial Issuance Date:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
English Language Proficiency. TRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English. See law 38 U.S.C § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements above, applicants must have 1 year of experience at the next lower GS-11 level to meet the grade-level requirements below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-12 Supervisory TRTs. In addition to the basic requirements stated above, the following qualification criteria must be met for each grade. The candidate's qualifications must clearly demonstrate the level of competence required for the grade.

Experience. Must have 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower (GS-11) grade level. These include, but are not limited to, plans and implements work schedules to assure an even flow and distribution of work, adjusts work assignments as needed for daily operation; recommends methods to improve productivity and continuously reviews treatment procedure and delivery. They oversee attendance and leave of employees, including approval of sick and annual leave requests. They address employee performance and conduct concerns. They inform higher-level management of anticipated staffing variances and recommend promotions, reassignments, or other personnel changes, such as retention or release of probationary employees, periodic step increases and recommending recognition of superior performance in the therapeutic radiologic area.

GS-11 knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs). 
Ability to manage daily operations of the department to include supervising radiation therapy staff; coordinating staffing, workload and schedules; setting priorities; and delegating tasks and responsibilities.
Ability to ensure department compliance with the national program office, radiation accrediting agencies, hospital and outside governing body standards through the management of quality improvement programs and adherence to departmental policies and standard operating procedures.
Ability to supervise employees as evidenced by assessing qualifications and abilities of current and prospective employees; interviewing and selecting candidates; providing training and/or departmental orientation; overseeing technical operations; assessing employees for promotions; and reviewing competency and conducting performance appraisals.
Ability to provide technical oversight to lower level TRTs for the completion of tasks such as CT simulation, treatment delivery, Record and Verify System (or other similar treatment delivery systems), newly acquired equipment, devices and products within the service.
Ability to successfully communicate with the radiation oncology team and internal and external customers to manage the needs of patients and accomplish the mission.

Do you have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level, demonstrating the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities described above?

(NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate the above requirements in their applications and supporting documentation.)
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-12 Supervisory TRTs. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must fully demonstrate ALL the following KSAs.
Ability in managing daily operations of the department to include supervising radiation therapy staff; coordinating staffing, workload and schedules; setting priorities; and delegating tasks and responsibilities.
Ability to coordinate and develop the quality improvement program to include evaluating and implementing departmental policies and standard operating procedures to ensure compliance with the national program office, radiation accrediting agencies, hospital and other outside governing body standards.
Ability to perform administrative duties to include, but not limited to: reviewing qualifications and abilities of current and prospective employees; interviewing and selecting candidates; providing training and departmental orientation; overseeing technical operations; granting promotions; and reviewing competencies and conducting performance appraisals.
Ability to provide oversight to lower level TRTs with tasks such as CT simulation, treatment delivery, Record and Verify System (or other similar treatment delivery systems), newly acquired equipment, devices and other products within the service.
Ability to successfully communicate with the radiation oncology team, internal customers and external customers to manage the needs of patients and to accomplish the mission.
Ability to adhere to radiation safety practices which include identifying and investigating treatment variations; reporting incidents; participating in quality assurance; addressing required reports, tasks and action items; and completing other requests using research and systematic data collection.
Knowledge of budget allocations and using resources within the budget, procuring of day-to-day supplies, investigating new equipment options and planning for long-term replacement needs.
Do you meet ALL the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) as described above?(NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate the above requirements in their applications and supporting documentation.)
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙