Position Title
Regional MWR Program Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR27-007 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Regional MWR Program Director position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience as it relates to this position. This experience must be documented in your resume.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 or NF-04 grade level. Specialized experience includes administration, analysis, and oversight of military recreation programs.
 I DO NOT have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 or NF-04 grade level.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience related to MWR Program Management.
 I have at least three (3) years of experience as a managing MWR programs for a military Region or Headquarters.
 I have at least three (3) years of experience as an Installation MWR Director.
 None of the statements apply to me.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience serving as a technical authority for MWR programs to include preparing executive level correspondence and briefings for senior level leadership.
 I have five (5) or more years of experience in the task listed in the above statement.
 I have three (3) or more years of experience in the task listed in the above statement.
 I have one (1) or more years of demonstrated experience.
 None of the statements apply to me.


4.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in conducting analysis of data for producing statistical reports and trend analysis of MWR services.
 I have five (5) or more years of demonstrated experience.
 I have three (3) or more years of demonstrated experience.
 I have one (1) or more years of demonstrated experience.
 None of these statements apply to me.


5.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in MWR budget and resource management policies, procedures and regulations (includes budget/financial management, property management).
 I have five (5) or more years demonstrated experience in both NAF and APF systems
 I have three (3) or more years demonstrated experience both NAF and APF systems.
 I have three (3) or more years demonstrated experience in either the NAF or APF system.
 None of these statements apply to me.


6.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill and knowledge of Navy MWR program standards and accreditation requirements.
 I have participated as a team member on a Navy MWR accreditation team.
 I have knowledge and experience of MWR program standards as a MWR Director at an installation, Region or HQ.
 I have knowledge and experience of MWR program standards as a MWR Activity Manager at an installation, Region or HQ.
 None of these statements apply to me.


7.
Which statement describes your highest level of education.
 I have a Master’s degree, or higher, in Recreation, Business, or a related field.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Recreation, Business, or a related field.
 I have an Associate’s degree or certificate in Recreation, Business, or related field.
 None of these statements apply to me.


8.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of supervisory experience within Navy MWR programs to include planning and assigning work, evaluating performance, coaching and counseling, interviewing and hiring, resolving complaints, effecting discipline, and providing training.
 I have at least three (3) years of experience supervising other Program Directors/ Managers.
 I have at least three (3) years of experience supervising other MWR Activity Managers.
 I have at least three (3) years of general supervisory experience.
 None of these statements apply to me


9.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience working in a foreign OCONUS MWR program.
 I have at least three (3) years of experience working in a foreign OCONUS MWR program.
 I have at least one (1) year of experience working in a foreign OCONUS MWR program.
 None of these statements apply to me.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙