Position Title
VICTIM ADVOCATE (SAPR)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12918116 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirements for the Social Science Series, 0101?
 I have successfully completed a degree in behavioral or social science; or in a related disciplines appropriate to the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have none of the above.


2.
Which of the following best describes your specialized experience requirements for the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position?
 I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience providing support to adult victims of sexual assault and/or sexual harassment.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related discipline (e.g. behavioral or social science) appropriate to the position.
 I have successfully completed three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in a related discipline (e.g. behavioral or social science) appropriate to the position.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above that equates to 3 years of experience. My percentage of the required education plus my percentage of the required experience equal 100%.
 I do not have any of the above education/experience.


3.
Within which sector or agency do you have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services?
 I have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services within a combination of two or more of the above sectors/agencies
 I have experience providing the above within the Department of Navy (DoN).
 I have experience providing the above within the Department of Defense (DOD), but outside DoN.
 I have experience providing the above within the public sector, but outside DOD.
 I have experience providing the above within the private sector
 I do not have experience with the above.


4.
How many years' experience do you have working with sexual assault victims in crisis situations, performing duties such as conducting risk assessments to determine their immediate needs, and evaluating safety concerns and levels of risk?
 I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
How many years' experience do you have providing a wide range of essential support services for victims of sexual harassment and/or sexual assault, such as advocacy services; liaison services; community resources; and post primary care activities?
 I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


6.
How many years' experience do you have developing and delivering presentations and training?
 I have 5+ years’ experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years’ experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years’ experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙