Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-OD-IMP-26-12896647 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Mar 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from the Department of Health and Human Services? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 
 
You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our CTAP page for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible for CTAP? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently work at the National Institutes of Health (NIH)? If so, you may be eligible to apply to this vacancy announcement.
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent NIH employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility, access eOPF and open your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50):  Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."  If you are still unsure of your eligibility, contact the individual listed in the vacancy announcement for assistance.  
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package, before the announcement closes.  You can obtain a copy from eOPF.  
Select "Yes" to this eligibility question. 
Based on the above, are you eligible to apply as an NIH Employee?  If you work at NIH, select "Yes", submit the required documentation, and we will make the determination for you.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Minimum Education requirements for the Supervisory Accountant position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with major study in accounting, or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.
 I have a combination of education and experience with at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND my background includes 24 semester hours in either accounting or auditing courses.
 I have a combination of education and experience with at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND I am a Certified Public Accountant or Certified Internal Auditor.
 I have a combination of education and experience with at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge AND I have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g.,15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement, provided that I meet (a), (b), or (c) as described in the vacancy announcement.
 My education does not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a Supervisory Accountant, GS-0510-14, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-14 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: leading or overseeing the accounting operations for an organization; designing, developing, or implementing accounting programs or processes; examining, analyzing, and interpreting accounting data, records, and reports to resolve complex accounting issues; advising senior management on accounting and financial management matters.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


3.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application. I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment. I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information. Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙