Position Title
Marketing Assistant (Sign on Bonus Eligible)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
PEN 26-13034145 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with us. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Marketing and Sponsorship Coordinator, NF-1001-03?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience. My experience includes tasks such as: developing and executing promotional strategies; securing, negotiating, or managing sponsorship agreements; and coordinating public relations or marketing campaigns across various media channels.
 I have an Associate's degree in a related field (e.g., Marketing, Public Relations, Communications, or Business Administration). Transcripts required.
 I possess a combination of education and experience and have included my transcripts.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described in the options above.


2.
A minimum of 3 years of practical experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming is highly desirable.

Which answer below best describes your experience?
 I have at least 3 years of documented experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming
 I have at least 3 years of documented experience in at least 2 of the categories mentioned above.
 I have between 1 to 3 years of documented experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming
 I have between 1 to 3 years of documented experience in at least 2 of the categories mentioned above.
 I have less than 1 year of documented experience in marketing, sponsorship, advertising/or special event programming
 I have no experience in any of the categories mentioned above.


3.
This position will involves soliciting for Commercial Sponsorship and preparing Commercial Sponsorship agreements. What is your experience/knowledge of commercial sponsorship and associated requirements and recordkeeping as it pertains to a Navy MWR or DOD equivalent marketing program?
 I have 3 years' experience with the above, independently managing a commercial sponsorship program.
 I have between 1 - 3 years' experience assisting with a commercial sponsorship program.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above task.
 I have no experience


4.
The incumbent will create marketing material for all MWR facilities to include monthly newsletters, graphic design, flyers and posters, lamination, and display material for A Frames.

What level of knowledge and experience do you have working with in-house printing and production equipment?i.e., Konica Minolta Bizhub printers with fold/staple unit, heat press laminators, and plotter/large-format printer for posters
 I have 3 or more years of experience as described above
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have no experience


5.
What is your level of experience using graphics applications and software on PC computer platforms?

Software experience should include Microsoft Office (Outlook, Powerpoint, Publisher, Word and Excel), Adobe Creation suite (Photo Shop, InDesign, etc.) software.
 I have 3 or more years of experience with the technical skill as described above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with the technical skill as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the technical skill as described above.
 I have no experience


6.
What level of knowledge and experience working on Websites, social media and other digital outlets do you have?
 My resume demonstrates 5 or more years’ experience performing the above tasks.
 My resume demonstrates 2 to 5 years’ experience performing the above tasks.
 My resume demonstrates 1 to 2 years’ experience performing the above tasks.
 I have no experience


7.
My MICROSOFT OFFICE proficiency can best be described as
 Advanced EXCEL, WORD, PowerPoint and Publisher
 Intermediate EXCEL, WORD, PowerPoint and Publisher
 Beginner EXCEL, WORD, PowerPoint and Publisher
 No experience


8.
My experience in the timely development, layout, writing, editing, revising, proofing, printing and distribution of publications and advertisements can best be described as:
 I have 2 or more years' experience with the above and consistently meet deadlines.
 I have between 1 and 2 years' experience with the above and meet deadlines.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience


9.
My experience in creating, editing, printing and producing newsletters, marketing material, and social media accounts, ensuring all relevant and factual data is included, current and applicable, can be best described as: (Choose all that apply)
 A. I have been responsible for editing and producing monthly newsletters.
 B. I have administered social media accounts for prior employers.
 C. I have been responsible for producing content and placing digital signage across a large organization.
 D. I have been responsible for producing banners and posters and placing them throughout a target area.
 E. I have represented a marketing department at special events.
 F. I do not have experience in the areas listed above.


10.
This position requires customer service skills as there is an extensive amount of interaction with coworkers, customers, vendors and suppliers and command staff.

Which answer below best describes your customer service and public speaking experience.
 I have expensive experience with customer service, and I am very comfortable with public speaking, providing briefs and orientations as needed.
 I have previously worked in customer service, and I have some experience with public speaking.
 I have some experience with customer service, but do not have public speaking experience.
 I have no experience


11.
How much experience working with policies, guidance and procedures pertaining to non-appropriated fund (NAF) and/or appropriated fund (AF) policies have you documented on your resume?
 I have 3 or more years experience with NAF &/or AF fund policies.
 I have between 1 - 3 years' experience with NAF &/or AF fund policies.
 I do not have experience with NAF &/or AF fund policies.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙