Position Title
Interdisciplinary (Geographer or Physical Scientist)
Agency
Geological Survey
Announcement Number
USGS-26-13033359-DE-DLP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of the Interior employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency (other than the Department of the Interior) who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one year ago.    
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0150 - Geography
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
GS-0150: Basic Requirements for GS-0150: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Geographer.
 Degree: geography; or related physical or social science such as geology, meteorology, economics, statistics, sociology, anthropology, political science, history, cartography, computer science, urban studies, or planning that included at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields.
 Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in geography, or a related field that included at least 24 semester hours in geography or related fields, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above


2.
GS-1301: Basic Requirements for GS-1301: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Physical Scientist.
 Degree: physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 Combination of education and experience -- education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above


3.
Basic Requirements for GS-15: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have professional experience. Select the response below that best describes your experience.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service as described in the qualifications section of the vacancy announcement that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.
 I do not meet the requirements as described.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙