Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12883140-26-EWK Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Applicants must meet the basic citizen requirements in order to qualify for this position.


1.
I am a Citizen of the United States.
 Yes
 No


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.


2.
I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 Yes
 No


The following question pertains to your experience as a Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography). To be creditable experience must have demonstrated possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics associated with current Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) practice. Definitions of the required knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the different grade levels are listed in the vacancy announcement for this position.


3.
Do you possess one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level GS-5 which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? At this level, medical instrument technicians (Polysomnography) must have: Knowledge of standard, computerized polysomnographs for recording continuous all night physiological data including EEG, EOG, EKG, EMG and respiratory parameters; Knowledge of standard devices such as oximeters, respiratory effort devices, nasal pressure devices, thermistors, thermocouples, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machines, and laboratory computers including the ability to calibrate and operate the equipment and recognize and eliminate recording artifacts; Knowledge of medical terminology and medical record organization to review medical records, sleep study orders, consent forms, medical charts, etc.; Knowledge of polysomnographic procedural protocols (including overnight sleep studies, MSLT, MWT, PAP, etc.); and Knowledge of basic anatomy and physiology and the international 10-20 electrode placement system in order to conduct the sleep studies.

 Yes
 No


The following question pertains to your experience as a Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography). To be creditable experience must have demonstrated possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics associated with current Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) practice. Definitions of the required knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the different grade levels are listed in the vacancy announcement for this position.


4.
Do you possess one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level GS-6 which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? At this level the medical instrument technician (Polysomnography) must have: Knowledge of CPAP function and operation to select and fit appropriate PAP patient interface devices; Ability to independently titrate and document PAP level to achieve therapeutic goals.; Knowledge of indications, complications, and contraindications of CPAP therapy; Knowledge of Bi-Level pressure titrations; and Ability to recognize changes seen during the PSG tracing and identify all stages of sleep. This includes the ability to score and analyze sleep stages in clinical polysomnography recordings.

 Yes
 No


The following question pertains to your experience as a Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography). To be creditable experience must have demonstrated possession of the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics associated with current Medical Instrument Technician (Polysomnography) practice. Definitions of the required knowledge, skills, and abilities required for the different grade levels are listed in the vacancy announcement for this position.


5.
Do you possess one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level GS-7 which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled? This represents the full performance level for medical instrument technician (Polysomnography). At this level the technician must have: Advanced knowledge or the International Classification of Sleep Disorders and the ability to recognize uncommon and/or rare sleep disorders; Ability to summarize and report polysomnographic data in narrative form; Knowledge of event characteristics (e.g., respiratory, cardiac, sleep stage, seizures, etc.) and ability to take appropriate action; and Ability to provide briefings and orientation to hospital staff including physicians.

 Yes
 No


6.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the résumé, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment. Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information each job listed: - Job title (if Federal a position, include pay plan, series, and grade) - Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include the number of hours worked per week) - Detailed Description of Duties Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙