Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-12968749-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Budget Analyst, GS-0560-11 position with Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement below that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Budget Analyst at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service which includes developing and presenting organization budget plans and/or cost estimate analysis; monitoring obligations and/or expenditures of an annual budget transactions; and utilizing financial automated systems to create budget reports and/or statistical data.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher graduate level education leading to such a degree which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I have the specialized experience described in A but less than one year. I have more than 2 years but less than the required education described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate experience beyond 2 years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total must equal at least 100% to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 I have the specialized experience described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: you must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙