Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-570307-12841646-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Tuesday, December 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a Motor Vehicle Operator (Forklift Operator), WG-5703-07 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Motor Vehicle Operator (Forklift Operator), WG-5703-07 without more than normal supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.
 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Motor Vehicle Operator (Fork Lift Operator) tasks. I am consulted by other employees or in difficult situations regarding performance of these duties: Perform work involving driving tractor trailers and/or other vehicles typically having a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of more than 32,000 pounds. Operate vehicles to transport supplies, materials equipment, and/or tools. Drive over rough, uneven terrain or unimproved roads, interstates, steep and winding grades exercising caution when backing to load/unload at docks, ramps, or similar locations. Couples/uncouples tractors and trailers and connects/disconnects air brakes and electrical lines. Operates one or more electric or diesel powered fork lift trucks to facilitate loading and unloading duties.
 I am able to perform the full range of Motor Vehicle Operator (Fork Lift Operator) tasks. I have the ability to perform work involving driving tractor trailers and/or other vehicles typically having a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of more than 32,000 pounds. I have the ability to operate vehicles to transport supplies, materials equipment, and/or tools, and drive over rough, uneven terrain or unimproved roads, and interstates, exercising caution when backing to load/unload at docks, or ramps. I have the ability to couple/uncouple tractors and trailers and connect/disconnect air brakes and electrical lines.
 I am able to perform the common Motor Vehicle Operator (Fork Lift Operator) tasks. Able to do routine jobs without assistance, but needs assistance in performing work involving driving tractor trailers and/or other vehicles typically having a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of more than 32,000 pounds. Under normal supervision operate vehicles to transport supplies, materials equipment, and/or tools, and drive over rough, uneven terrain or unimproved roads and couple/uncouple tractors and trailers and connect/disconnect air brakes and electrical lines.
 I am able to perform the simple Motor Vehicle Operator (Fork Lift Operator) tasks, under normal supervision. I have experience performing work involving driving tractor trailers and/or other vehicles. Operate vehicles to transport supplies, and drive over rough, uneven terrain or unimproved roads and couple/uncouple tractors and trailers.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙