Position Title
CHIEF ACQUISITION EXECUTIVE
Agency
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Announcement Number
OCAE-DE-12946464-26-HD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees.

In the last five years (from the closing date of this vacancy announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political appointee, Political Schedule A, Schedule C (confidential or policy-determining), or Non-Career or Limited appointee in the Senior Executive System (SES)? If yes, please provide appropriate documentation in your application package to provide proof of your current or most recent political appointment.


 Yes, I have held a political appointment within the last five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political appointment within the last five years.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not mandatory and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

If you choose not to provide a response for the questions, please enter "I'd prefer not to answer ".


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙