Position Title
Seasonal Health Technician (Emergency Medical Technician)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-1611-STLI-26-12947859-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Park Service. Please answer all questions below honestly and to the best of your ability. Ensure your application package supports all responses and includes all required documents. Failure to do so may result in loss of consideration.


1.
Please select the response below that best reflects how you meet the Minimum Qualifications Requirement for this position. Your resume and transcripts must reflect the answer you choose, or you will not be considered for this position.

 I possess one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 level in the Federal service. For this position specialized experience is defined as experience providing emergency medical services and basic first aid to patients; assisting in rescue operations; and performing worksite and facility safety and health inspections to ensure they are free of hazards and protect public safety.
 I have completed one full year of graduate level education in a degree field directly related to the work of the position.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience as described above.
 I do not possess the education or experience as described above.


2.
All applicants must possess a valid National Registry of EMT's (NREMT) or New York or New Jersey State EMT certification and provide proof with their application to be considered for this position. Please select the answer below that indicates if you meet this requirement.

 Yes, I possess a valid certification as described above.
 No, I do not possess a valid National Registry of EMT's (NREMT) or New York or New Jersey State EMT certification


3.
All applicants must possess a valid CPR card and provide a copy with their application package to be considered for this position. Please choose the answer below that indicates if you meet this requirement.

 Yes, I possess a valid CPR card and have provided a copy with my application package.
 No, I do not possess a valid CPR card.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙