Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
Announcement Number
MCGP-26-13052223-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
Before you are hired, you must sign and certify the accuracy of the information in your application. If you misrepresent your experience or education, or provide false or fraudulent information in or with your application, it may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work. Making false or fraudulent statements also may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management Analyst GS-0343-11 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Management Analyst at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes skill in applying analytical issues concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations, experience in evaluative techniques concerning studies that measure effectiveness of program operations, resolving conventional problems and improving established procedures, and applying established management analysis techniques and methods.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements. My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙