Position Title
Physical Scientist/General Engineer
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NESDIS-26-12976894-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fairbanks, AK
 B. Boulder, CO
 C. Fort Collins, CO
 D. College Park, MD
 E. Silver Spring, MD
 F. Suitland, MD
 G. Stennis Space Center, MS
 H. Asheville, NC
 I. Wallops Island, VA
 J. Madison, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


3.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the General Physical Science series, 1301 because I have:
 Degree: physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 Combination of education and experience: education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the General Physical Science series, 1301.


2.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Professional Engineering Position Series, 0800 because I have:

 Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 Combination of education and experience: college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: (1) Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (2) Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. (3) Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A. (4) Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Professional Engineering Positions Series, 0800.


3.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physical Scientist/General Engineer, ZP-1301-0801-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in satellite, ground or electronic communications system projects which could include: performing installation, operations, design, engineering or science tasks, maintenance or sustainment tasks; Assisting in scientific or engineering data analysis and requirements for satellite, ground or electronic communications systems; and Assisting in project testing or the development of operational requirements for satellite, ground or electronic communications systems.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only graduate-level in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the one statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physical Scientist/General Engineer, ZP-1301-0801-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Leading satellite, ground or electronic communications system projects which could include: performing installation, operations, design, engineering or science tasks, maintenance, or sustainment tasks; Completing documentation for procurement of systems or equipment related to satellite, ground or electronic communications systems or facilities; and Performing engineering or science calculations, developing design parameters, or creating data or equipment design solutions or specifications.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
A gradual decrease in signal strength is observed on an antenna system providing the downlinked signal to a receiver on the Operations floor. This level has decreased gradually over time. What is the most likely cause of this issue and where would you begin to troubleshoot?

 Feed Horn corrosion
 Multiplexer tuning
 OMT saturation
 LNA (Low Noise Amplifier)
 Atmospheric link margin degradation
 Receiver sensitivity degradation


2.
In troubleshooting the antenna issue in Question 1, what piece of primary test equipment would you use to begin the investigation?

 Oscilloscope
 Signal Generator
 Spectrum Analyzer
 Time Domain Reflectometer
 Network Analyzer w/ low Phase Noise capability


3.
The Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) RF downlink spectrum display suddenly experiences an increase in the receive noise floor when the ground station uplink HPAs are activated. What would be the most likely cause of the issue?

 Degraded multiplexer isolation.
 External In-band RF Interference
 Waveguide filter leakage
 LNA failure
 Spacecraft antenna axial ratio offset


4.
If asked to develop the performance specifications for a new multi-band antenna system, which if the following is not a primary design parameter/ consideration?

 RX and TX Frequency Ranges
 RF filter roll off specifications
 Up/Down converter Local Oscillator frequencies
 EIRP
 Antenna pointing accuracy
 Multiplexer insertion loss
 Fiber Optic modem G/T
 LNA return loss
 Receiver sensitivity


5.
Which of the following is not a distinct phase of a project to upgrade a satellite ground station timing system?

 Design Review
 Specification Development
 Stakeholder Engagement
 Project Need Definition
 Factory Acceptance Testing
 System Development
 Site Acceptance Testing
 Operational Testing
 System Integration


6.
Which of the following is an advantage of converting the SOLAR-1 satellite mission data and telemetry downlink from RF (8464 MHz) to IF (1200 MHz) prior to demodulation by the SGC modem?
 Improved impedance matching with SGC modem/receiver frontend.
 Increased group delay through coaxial transmission lines at IF frequency vs. RF frequency.
 Rain fade / Atmospheric attenuation mitigation.
 Steeper receiver bandpass filter roll-off performance at IF frequency vs. RF frequency.


7.
A critical, legacy Intermediate Frequency (IF) switch matrix in your ground station is approaching its EOL support phase, however the OEM offers a newer, software-defined alternative that utilizes a completely different digital control interface. To maintain operational continuity and gather the necessary technical information to initiate an integration design project, what is your best first step?

 Immediately begin the procurement process for the OEM’s recommended replacement switch while simultaneously developing replacement operational procedures to account for the updated interface.
 Design an in-house custom hardware adapter based on assumptions of the new unit’s pin configuration to save time.
 Contact the OEM’s application engineers to request the Interface Control Document (ICD), API documentation, and MTBF (Mean Time Between Failures) data to perform a comprehensive compatibility analysis.
 Reject the manufacturer’s alternative and source a used, identical legacy unit from a third-party broker to avoid system modifications.


8.
When configuring a ground station network for satellite tracking, which of the following is NOT an industry-standard ephemeris or tracking data format?

 NASA IIRV
 CCSDS OEM
 NORAD TLE
 STK Ephemeris
 NASA INPv2
 CCSDS ASCII Table


9.
An upcoming satellite mission has a minimum downlink G/T Figure of Merit requirement of 22.0 dB/K at an elevation angle of 5°. The ground system has an Antenna Gain (Gant) of 47.5 dBi and a System Noise Temperature (Tsys) of 250 K. What is the G/T of the ground station and does it meet the satellite requirement?

 G/T = 23.5 dB/K; The ground system meets the specification
 G/T = 21.5 dB/K; The ground system does not meet the specification
 G/T = 25.5 dB/K; The ground system meets the specification
 G/T = 19.5 dB/K; The ground system does not meet the specification


10.
A ground station project is moving from the design phase into procurement and installation. You are tasked with defining the testing and operational requirements for a newly procured X-band feed system before it can be integrated into the active tracking antenna. Which of the following sequence of actions represents the most comprehensive plan to satisfy testing, contracting, and material verification requirements?

 Conduct a Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) at the vendor site, verify material certifications for RF performance requirements, outline a Site Acceptance Test (SAT) plan, and identify long-lead spares for operational maintenance.
 Order the materials based purely on the manufacturer's datasheet, skip factory testing to expedite the schedule, and troubleshoot any polarization mismatches during live satellite passes.
 Require the contractor to install the feed system immediately upon delivery, and rely solely on the standard 1-year warranty to cover any operational deficiencies or material failures.
 Delegate the entire testing protocol to the field supervisors without providing specifications, and request a post-installation operational audit from a third-party contracting agency.


11.
In an ideal Additive White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) channel, how does the theoretical Energy per Bit to Noise Power Spectral Density ratio (EbN0) required to achieve a specific Bit Error Rate (BER) for QPSK compare to that of BPSK?

 QPSK requires the exact same EbN0 as BPSK
 QPSK requires 3 dB more EbN0 than BPSK to achieve the same BER
 QPSK requires 3 dB less EbN0 than BPSK because of its multi-phase state
 QPSK requires 6 dB more EbN0 than BPSK due to increased phase states


12.
When calculating the downlink budget for a LEO tracking station operating in the X-band or Ka-band, the system noise temperature (Tsys) is observed to increase significantly when the antenna tracks the satellite below a 5-degree elevation angle. What is the primary physical cause of this performance degradation?

 The satellite transponder automatically backs off its transmit power at low elevations to prevent terrestrial interference.
 The antenna's main beam and sidelobes pick up increased thermal noise from the warm Earth, and the signal traverses a longer atmospheric path length.
 Cosmic microwave background radiation becomes highly concentrated near the local horizon.
 The tracking antenna's servo motors consume maximum power at low elevations, creating localized electromagnetic interference (EMI) in the feed.


13.
The contractor has completed Factory Acceptance Testing (FAT) for the ground system's core M&C (Monitor and Control) software suite. Several non-critical requirements in the Requirements Verification Matrix (RVM) failed to meet the exact PWS thresholds. What is the primary responsibility of the COR regarding milestone acceptance?

 Execute a contract amendment that permanently waives the failed requirements so the project can move to the site installation phase.
 Formally document the specific test failures, assess the technical operational risk, and provide a recommendation to the CO to either accept with a price reduction (withhold) or reject the delivery until remediation is complete.
 Personally rewrite the software test procedures and re-run the tests alongside the contractor's developers until they pass.
 Assume direct management of the contractor's software engineering team to troubleshoot the remaining bugs.


14.
The ground system acquisition project is experiencing severe delays due to a subcontractor's inability to deliver the RF low-noise amplifiers (LNAs) on time. Which of the following actions falls strictly within the scope of the COR's authorized duties to resolve this issue?

 Contacting the subcontractor directly to renegotiate their delivery schedule and pricing on behalf of the prime contractor.
 Instructing the prime contractor to fire the failing subcontractor and hire a specific vendor that the COR prefers.
 Reviewing the prime contractor's updated Risk Management Plan and Integrated Master Schedule (IMS), and conducting a technical assessment of their mitigation strategies to brief the CO.
 Authorizing the use of government contingency funds to directly pay the subcontractor an expedited delivery fee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


15.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙