Position Title
SUPERVISORY LOAN SPECIALIST
Agency
Export-Import Bank of the United States
Announcement Number
IMP26-MJ-12901371-OBAF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 05, 2026 to Mar 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Export Import Bank of the United States Employee:  I am a current Export-Import Bank Employee (Current Competitive Service, Career/Career-Conditional Employees).

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your resume and supporting documents must support the responses you select (Failure to provide a response below may result in further lack of consideration for this announcement).


1.
Are you a current Export-Import Bank Employee (Current Competitive Service, Career/Career-Conditional Employees)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service or other equivalent pay system that has equipped you to perform the major duties of this position?
This specialized experience includes:
Experience as an expert in one or more of the Transportation Division's subject matter areas such as credit analysis of airlines and other transportation related companies, sectoral knowledge of one or more of the following industries: airlines, aircraft manufacturing, business aircraft, agricultural aircraft, helicopters, spare engines, MRO services, advanced air mobility, and rail-related exports such as locomotives and rail cars.
Experience structuring complex asset-backed financings of transportation equipment.
Experience serving as a relationship manager for borrowers, lenders, and exporters for transactions that are highly complex in their structure, (e.g., asset-backed tax lease structures, capital markets fundings); experience performing credit analysis, and a demonstrated ability to identify problems, determine causes, impact and design resolutions related to multi-million dollar transactions.
Experience negotiating independently, financing terms with borrowers or other creditors for new authorizations, or in the event of post-authorization, changes to a transaction or restructuring of operative credits for existing authorizations.
Experience leading a staff including planning, directing, reviewing, and monitoring their work.
Experience related to policy aspects of EXIM's transportation financing, such as the OECD Arrangement, the Aircraft Sector Understanding, Co-Financing, Additionality, Economic Impact, interactions with other export credit agencies, etc.
 Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-15 grade level)
 My experience is not reflected in the description above.


3.
Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports this response (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.


4.
For EXIM-supported financing for the export of the following products, which one(s) are not governed by the terms of the Aircraft Sector Understanding (ASU)?
 A. Business jet aircraft
 B. Flight simulators
 C. Large commercial aircraft
 D. Locomotives
 E. both (b) and (d)


5.
In a standard asset-backed, EXIM-supported financing for the export of large commercial aircraft, which of the following statements is not correct?
 the Special Purpose Company (SPC) must be located in a jurisdiction acceptable to EXIM
 the Airline is the borrower, buyer and end-user
 the SPC enters into a loan agreement with the Guaranteed Lender
 the SPC, as owner of the aircraft, pledges the aircraft as collateral to the Security Trustee
 the Airline is the lessee and primary source of repayment in a non-sovereign guaranteed transaction


6.
Which of the following export credit agencies finance Airbus large commercial aircraft?
 UKEF
 UKEF and bpifrance
 SACE
 UKEF, bpifrance and Euler Hermes
 bpifrance and Euler Hermes


7.
Which of the following large commercial aircraft models compete with each other?
 737 MAX vs A320neo
 787 vs A350
 777F vs A350F
 all of the above
 none of the above


8.
Regarding EXIM's support for business jets, general aviation aircraft and helicopters, select all the following statements which are true: (Select all that apply)
 A. the Primary Source of Repayment is usually not an airline
 B. EXIM can partner with a private sector entity to finance a business jet or helicopter
 C. I have performed this task independently.
 D. with regard certain smaller business aircraft, the finance lease structure is often not used, given the smaller dollar cost of the aircraft and the desire to minimize transaction costs
 E. none of the above is true


9.
Why is it important for EXIM to support the emerging advance air mobility sector?
 to help ensure US dominance of this emerging segment of the aerospace industry
 to support the US aerospace supply chain, and the high paying jobs associated with aerospace
 to compete against other countries, especially China [2] D to increase efficiency in logistics and regional connectivity
 all of the above answers are true
 none of the above answers is true


10.
The government-owned national flag carrier of a relatively risky country is seeking EXIM financing to support its acquisition of new large commercial passenger aircraft for the first time. The airline's business is dependent on seasonal tourist traffic to the country. There is also concern about the ability of the airline to make timely payments in USD due to periodic foreign currency restrictions. Which of the following risk mitigants would best protect EXIM in this fact pattern?
 a requirement for a higher amount of non-passenger third-party liability war risk insurance to cover potential accidents involving people and property on the ground
 quarterly lease payments to the Security Trustee in advance of the corresponding loan payment, to ensure that the Security Trustee has the money to pay the guaranteed lender, even if the Airline is delayed in making the next lease payment due to foreign currency issues
 a security deposit of one quarter of debt service held by the Security Trustee in the event that the Airline has difficulty making a payment due to a bad tourist season
 a requirement for a change in control provision to ensure continued government majority ownership
 both (b) and (c)


11.
Which of the following factors should be considered when analyzing the credit risk of an airline?
 qualitative factors such as its business model, route network, fleet, regulatory environment, and maintenance capability
 quantitative factors such as profitability, leverage and liquidity
 for a government-owned airline, the level of explicit or implicit support that the government would provide if needed
 its prior payment history with EXIM, and EXIM’s current collateral position, if applicable
 All of the above


12.
Large commercial aircraft transactions are often underwritten and documented under tight deadlines, due to the manufacturer's delivery schedule. EXIM strives to ensure that the EXIM supported aircraft financing is ready for disbursement at the time of delivery of the aircraft. As Deputy Vice President of the Transportation Division, you are managing several loan officers, one of whom has a tight deadline for completing a Board memorandum for initial presentation to the EXIM Board of Directors (for referral to Congress). In order to ensure that the Board memorandum is completed on time, from the list below, select all the actions that you would take as Deputy Vice President to ensure timely completion of the Board memorandum. (Select all that apply)
 A. I would check with the manufacturer to confirm the expected delivery date of the first aircraft in the series of aircraft that EXIM was being asked to finance.
 B. I would meet with the loan officer in question to determine the status of the Board memorandum, and the remaining tasks and Board memorandum appendices that had not yet been completed.
 C. I would check with EXIM’s in-house counsel to ensure that outside counsel could begin documenting the transaction immediately following the Board’s taking favorable action (i.e., voting to refer the transaction to Congress for the required notification period) at the initial Board of Directors meeting.
 D. I would pull in other loan officers who had availability to help with certain appendices (e.g., collateral analysis, Compliance Checklist, Additionality Checklist, etc.) or other ancillary tasks (e.g., APS cover pages, Federal Register Notice) so that the loan officer in question could focus on completing the Board memorandum.
 E. I would assign the transaction, even at this late stage, to another loan officer that I felt would be able to complete the Board memorandum on time.


13.
As Deputy Vice President, you will be expected to train, mentor and provide guidance to newly hired loan officers in the Transportation Division with regard to large commercial aircraft, business aircraft, agricultural aircraft, helicopter, rail, PDP and other transactions. The objective is to ensure that the newly hired loan officers are able to perform successfully and contribute as quickly as possible. From the list below, select all the actions that you would as Deputy Vice President take to achieve this objective. (Select all that apply)
 A. I would not provide any training myself, but instead rely on other loan officers in the Transportation Division to provide such training.
 B. I would work with the newly hired loan officer to assess his/her specific training needs, and then develop a customized, hands-on training curriculum for him/her that would cover various industry-related topics and EXIM processes needed to ensure success as a Transportation Division loan officer.
 C. I would have the newly hired loan officer read Board memoranda and/or transaction documentation from prior transactions, have him/her develop a list of questions, and then meet with the loan officer to answer his/her questions.
 D. I would have the newly hired loan officer attend industry-related courses or seminars, such as the Boeing Airline Financial Planning Seminar.
 E. I would do none of the above, which would be unnecessary, given that newly hired loan officers should already have industry knowledge and expertise from prior experience.


14.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and all supporting materials, including my resume, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙