Position Title
Park Guide - FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1544-LIHO-26-13025235-FL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring is defined as residency within 50 miles of Springfield, Illinois. 

If you select yes based on residency within the area listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your response to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in determining your eligibility to be considered for this position. Choose the response that best represents your education, experience, and/or training. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your response is subject to evaluation and verification and will be verified against the information you provide.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification specialized experience or education requirements for a Park Guide, GS-0090-05 position.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-04 level in federal service. Specialized Experience is experience that involved oral presentation of historical, scientific, or program information to individuals and groups; researching historical or scientific topics for the purpose of developing talks and answering related questions; answering a variety of questions from the public. This specialized experience could have been obtained in work such as Park Guide or tour guide/leader; naturalist; historical educator or teacher; working in a visitor center, or other similar work.
 I have successfully completed at least four years of education above high school (120 semester hours or 180 quarter hours) leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation, such as American history, science, public speaking, parks and recreation, education or communications. You must include transcripts.
 I possess an equivalent combination of education and experience as described above, which when combined, totals at least one full year. (Refer to the "Qualifications" section for details on combining experience and education to meet requirements).
 I do not meet any of the requirements above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙