Position Title
Hydrologist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-26-13028026-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Tucson, AZ
 B. North Webster, IN


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Hydrology series, 1315 because I have:

 Degree: physical or natural science, or engineering that included at least 30 semester hours in any combination of courses in hydrology, the physical sciences, geophysics, chemistry, engineering science, soils, mathematics, aquatic biology, atmospheric science, meteorology, geology, oceanography, or the management or conservation of water resources. The course work must have included at least 6 semester hours in calculus (including both differential and integral calculus), and at least 6 semester hours in physics. Calculus and physics, as described above, are requirements for all grade levels.
 Combination of education and experience-- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Hydrology series, 1315.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Hydrologist, GS-1315-12 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Utilizing models, techniques and procedures for hydro-meteorological forecasts; and Representing an organization to stakeholders regarding hydrologic forecast and warning operations.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Hydrologist, GS-1315-13 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Maintaining and updating hydro-meteorological models, techniques and procedures for hydrologic forecasts; Analyzing hydrologic forecast and warning processes, procedures, and services to recommend operational improvement; and Representing an organization to internal and external stakeholders regarding hydrologic forecast and warning operations.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Rainfall-runoff is a process used in:

 Hydrologic model execution
 Measuring the rate of carbon sequestration in old-growth forest canopies
 Estimating the chemical composition of groundwater in deep, static aquifers


2.
What analysis is used to determine the historical probability of floods of different sizes occurring at a specific location?

 Bathymetric Mapping Analysis
 Flood frequency analysis
 Hydraulic Routing Analysis


3.
What is not a key factor that influences streamflow?

 The amount of rainfall
 The antecedent moisture conditions of the basin prior to a storm
 Solar Flares


4.
Which of the following is most effective for transforming historical data into actionable information for long-term planning, risk, assessment and infrastructure?

 Analyzing hydrologic data using techniques such as flood frequency, geo-statistical, regional, or time-series analysis
 Real time satellite data assimilation and short range deterministic weather forecasting
 Qualitative field observations of current river conditions


5.
Long range hydrologic forecasts are used for:

 Identifying the precise hour a river will crest during an active storm
 Seasonal water resource management, drought planning, and reservoir optimization
 Issuing evacuations for a specific street during a flash flood


6.
Determining hydrologic service requirements for an area of responsibility is best accomplished by:

 Limiting services to only those basins that have experienced record-breaking floods in the last five years
 Evaluating the specific needs of local decision-makers and the vulnerabilities of the community
 Implementing a uniform set of national standards without consulting local agencies


7.
Establishing communication and relationships between Weather Forecast Office (WFO) forecasters and River Forecast Center (RFC) hydrologists is important because:

 It facilitates integration of RFC hydrologic expertise into local WFO operations
 It ensures the RFC can bypass local offices to communicate directly with emergency managers.
 It minimizes the need for local data collection by relying solely on centralized RFC models


8.
When using computer modeling techniques to complete hydrological studies, the models are so advanced that they serve as a complete replacement for the need to collect physical, in-field data like river flow or snow depth?

 True
 False


9.
A plan to direct or manage the collection of hydrologic data includes:

 Network design, standardized field procedures, and quality control to ensure the data is accurate, reliable and useful
 Limiting data collection to the most historical sites
 Ensuring data collected remains proprietary and is not shared


10.
What is the primary operational value of the WS Form E-19 during a flood event?

 It provides the real-time satellite data needed to run a forecast model
 It contains impact statements that correlate gauge heights with specific impacts to a community
 It serves as the legal document for requesting federal disaster funding after a flood


11.
Which of the following activities is essential for ensuring that a hydrologic monitoring system functions effectively during a flood event?

 Delaying all network modifications until the flood event has completely subsided to avoid data gaps
 Monitoring network performance and establishing requirements for maintenance and modifications to improve reliability
 Reducing the frequency of data transmission to conserve battery life when water levels begin to rise


12.
Why is it important for the National Weather Service to participate in tabletop exercises with decision-makers?

 It allows them to practice mathematical formulas used in manual hydrograph calculations.
 It provides an opportunity to identify customer requirements and improve customer support.
 It serves as a primary method for recruiting new volunteers for local weather spotting.


13.
Water resource forecasts are used by decision maker to:

 Regulate the flow of water from controlled reservoirs
 Guarantee that no droughts or floods will occur in a specific geographic region for the upcoming decade
 Replace the need for physical infrastructure, such as dams, levees, and reservoirs


14.
During a rapidly escalating hydrologic event requiring immediate public safety actions, a forecaster receives preliminary model output and anecdotal field reports suggesting a critical exceedance of forecast levels. Prioritizing effective communication and risk mitigation, advising external partners to disregard all agency forecasts and rely exclusively on their localized field observations due to evolving conditions is the best course of action?

 True
 False


15.
Training on hydrologic operations should focus on:

 Understanding the characteristics of local river basins
 Theoretical fluid dynamics calculations
 Standardizing all procedures to be identical across every geographic region


16.
Understanding the operations of a local flood warnings systems is important because:

 It eliminates the need for meteorological oversight by automating all public safety announcements
 It allows forecasters to manually override automated sensor data to match historical averages
 It allows for better understanding of the how data is collected and disseminated and the system’s reliability


17.
Coordinating training for forecasters to ensure they have sufficient training to properly assess hydrologic situations requires:

 A standardized curriculum that focuses exclusively on historical case studies from the 20th century
 Limiting training to senior-level staff to ensure the most experienced personnel handle data
 A continuous cycle of hands on training, including face-to-face discussions, and simulations and exercises


18.
The best approach to handling hydrologic operations in a field office is to?

 Develop a team
 Rely on a single subject matter expert
 Modify established measurement techniques based on personal preference to simplify the data entry process


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


19.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙