Position Title
Child and Youth Program Leader
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12841285 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Sunday, December 7, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response which best describes your qualifications.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent AND I have completed all DOD standardized training modules AND I have 1 year of experience at the CY-02 (GSE-04) level or equivalent working with children or youth in a child and youth setting.
 I have a valid Child Development Associate (CDA) or Military School-Age (MSA) credential AND I have a high school diploma or equivalent AND I have 1 year of experience at the CY-02 (GSE-04) level or equivalent working with children or youth in a child and youth setting.
 I have an associate or higher degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education AND I have 1 year of experience at the CY-02 (GSE-04) level or equivalent working with children or youth in a child and youth setting.
 None of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education and training related to this position?
 4-year or higher degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education.
 2-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, or other field related to Pre-K or Primary Education.
 Child Development Associate (CDA) or Military School-Age (MSA) credential.
 Completion of all DOD standardized training modules.
 Degree in a field other than those listed above.
 Less than the above.


3.
How much experience do you have leading, mentoring, or providing guidance to others (e.g., peers, junior coworkers, etc.)?
 1 or more years in a child & youth setting (e.g., daycare center, youth club, etc.).
 1 or more years in a non-child & youth setting.
 1 to 11 months.
 No experience.


4.
How much experience do you have reviewing child & youth activity or lesson plans for compliance with standardized requirements (e.g., curriculum, positive learning, age-appropriateness, etc.)?
 2 or more years.
 1 - 2 years.
 Less than 1 year.
 No experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙