Position Title
SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION RESPONSE VICTIM ADVOCATE (SAPR VA) (T5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-12879332-AF-25-369 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to each of the following questions. For each question, choose the response that best represents your eligibility, employment and skills. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your uploaded resume, documents and information provided by your references.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position is open to current on board federal technician employed by the MN Army or Air National Guard. Are you a current on-board employee with the MN ARNG or ANG? An SF-50 MUST be provided with your application.
 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of Sexual Assault Prevention Response Victim Advocate , GS-0101-11. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)?
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-09) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc) and is described in detail in my resume. Specialized experience includes experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources; Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures; Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.
 I do not have the specialized experience described above.


3.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your basic experience as relevant to the position of Sexual Assault Prevention Response Victim Advocate , GS-0101-11. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)?
 Possess a Degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.
 Combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.
 Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not meet the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you acknowledge the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
- Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
- Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform. Do not copy and paste the PD duties as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
- Employer's name and address
- Supervisor's name and contact information
- Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
- Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
- Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: For each following question, please use the narrative text box to best describe your experience and/or training for that question.


5.
In detail, explain how your specialized experience meets the following: 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level of GS09 in the 0201 field. Specialized Experience: Experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.


6.
In detail, explain your experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources.


7.
In detail, explain your knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures.


8.
In detail, explain your experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.


9.
In detail, explain your work involving supervising or performing work required to manage or direct one or more programs, including appropriate supporting social science service organizations.


10.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙