Position Title
Supervisory Government Information Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
331-26-RD-12992705-26-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Government Information Specialist position with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA).

The following section is used to determine your job related experience and/or education. Your education and/or experience must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response.

DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


1.
This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current Department of Veterans Affairs permanent employees and current/former Department of Veterans Affairs employees who are CTAP eligible.
 Yes, I am currently a permanent employee of the VA, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above, therefore, I am NOT eligible for this position.


Specialized Experience: To qualify at the GS-09 level, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7). Specialized Experience is defined as experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and ability to perform at the journeyman level of this position with little to no training or supervision. Specialized experience may be described as:
 Experience utilizing management techniques, methods, theories, principles, and labor relations concepts.
 Experience allocating and managing  personnel, equipment, and workspace to achieve program objectives.
 Experience applying regulations, other official guidance and principles, to include processes and procedures.
 Experience overseeing the planning, development and implementation of the technical aspects of programs specific to the position being filled.
 Experience in effective oral communication, written communication, and in the use of computer software.


2.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience which qualifies you for the Supervisory Government Information Specialist, GS-0308-09 grade level?
 I have one year of specialized experience as described above, equivalent to at least the GS-07 level or pay band in the Federal service to qualify at the GS-09.
 I have been awarded a master's or equivalent graduate degree required to qualify at the GS-09 level with: a master's degree in quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-09 grade level position. NOTE: Your application must include an official copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information if this response is selected.
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, or C above. Therefore, I am not eligible to be considered for this GS-09 position.


3.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 I am currently a GS-09 or higher grade.
 Neither A nor B applies to me, therefore I am not eligible for this position at the GS-09 grade level.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙