Position Title
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-130275000-AF-26-206 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 171st Air Refueling Wing
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 171st Air Refueling Wing (This includes 258th ATCS, 146 Weather Flight, 146 ARS, and 147 ARS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you an Enlisted member in the grade of E7 currently serving in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level and are you certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level? Do you have a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade?
 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 24 months experience in preparing and briefing emergency management plans? Experience in writing, designing, formatting, publishing, and presenting specific EM program assigned work to peers and immediate supervisors at workshops or special committee meetings? Knowledge in the Emergency Management (EM), Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear (CBRN), and Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) emergency response, logistics, and training programs? Experience in developing, managing, and executing the EM programs that ensured all military, civilian and contract personnel were trained and equipped to support home station and worldwide contingency operations?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?
 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes.
 No, I have not.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙