Position Title
Engineering Tech/Construction Project Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12948821 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have specialized experience that includes technical work in: drafting, surveying construction estimating, physical science, mathematics, aerospace, architecture, chemicals, electrical or mechanical systems, mining, petroleum, or nuclear systems. (Must be documented on your resume to get credit.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience in a trade or craft? (may be credited as specialized experience when the work provided intensive knowledge of engineering principles, techniques, methods, and precedents.) Examples are Planner and Estimator OR have a Certification. ( Must be documented on your resume of the certification must be attached.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicant must have knowledge of and the ability to apply engineering concepts, principles and practices applicable to a range of engineering disciplines (i.e., civil, mechanical, electrical, structural, architectural, environmental) required for the design, layout, execution processes of construction operations in order to monitor compliance with and provide input on construction projects. (Must be documented on your resume for credit.)
 3 to 5 years knowledge
 1 to 2 years knowledge
 less than 1 year knowledge


4.
How many years demonstrated experience do you have with NAF Capital Programs for Military MWR Programs? (Must be documented on your resume.)
 Has demonstrated experience with NAF capital programs for Military MWR programs
 Has demonstrated experience with fitness, recreational, etc. capital projects
 Has demonstrated experience with capital projects


5.
Do you have knowledge of the organization structure, and operation methods of DoD, Department of the Navy (DON), CNIC, NAVFAC, local commands, etc., in order to appropriately frame inquiries and provide responses related to the planning and execution of assigned project(s)/tasks.
 Documented experience directly to operation methods of DOD, Department of the Navy (DON), CNIC, NAVFAC, local commands, etc. in the communication related to the planning and execution of projects and tasks.
 Experience with DoD other Service organizational structures
 Has non DoD experience


6.
How many years of experience do you have interpreting construction guidance specifications to ensure compliance with requests for proposals, SOWs, contracts, and related project documents.
 Has 3-5 years experience interpreting construction guidance specifications to ensure compliance with requests for proposals, SOWs, contracts and related project documents
 Has 1-2 years’ experience interpreting construction guidance specifications to ensure compliance with requests for proposals, SOWs, contracts and related project documents2
 Has 0 experience in the interpretation of construction guidance specifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙