Position Title
Telephone System Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12974875O-TSN-0301-9/11 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. 855 M Street, Fresno, CA (CA7462), Fresno, CA
 B. 1 Independent Drive, Suite 501, Jacksonville, FL (FL2476), Jacksonville Beach, FL
 C. 2385 Chamblee Tucker Road, Chamblee, GA (GA0010), Chamblee, GA
 D. 310 Lowell Street, Andover, MA (MA0137), Lowell, MA
 E. 1222 Spruce, St. Louis, MO (MO0106), Saint Louis, MO
 F. 1040 Waverly Avenue, Holtsville, NY (NY0376), Holtsville, NY
 G. 100 SW Main Street, Portland, OR (OR6728), Portland, OR
 H. 127 International Drive, Franklin, TN (TN2709), Franklin, TN
 I. 5333 Getwell Road, Memphis, TN (TN0005), Memphis, TN


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


4.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


5.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


6.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


7.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


8.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


10.
What is your current position title?


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:GS-9 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Dealing with Business Operating Division policies, and functional responsibilities in the Telephone Systems Analyst area to assist in analyzing problems and provide solutions;
Utilizing work processes, programs, and functions, to identify error trends in the day-to-day workflow;
Using oral and written communications techniques to assist in the preparation of routine responses and to coordinate data and information;
Working with internal and external automated systems and controls to assist with training;
Utilizing Microsoft Excel calculations to prepare a report;
OR Two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in any field of study from an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR Master's or equivalent graduate degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR LL.B or J.D., if related.
OR You may qualify by a combination of experience and education.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above
 I have two (2) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education as described above.
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree as described above.
 I have a LL.B or J.D., if related.
 I have an equivalent amount of combined graduate education and experience equal to that described above.
 None of the above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: GS-11 Level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Understanding the design, operation and capabilities of a computerized Automatic Call Distribution (ACD)\telephone system;
Using systems and software to assist in producing the requisite reports needed to support management tracking and decision making;
Analyzing work processes, programs, functions, error trends, and day-to-day workflow to assist in identifying discrepancies, and troubleshooting issues;
Using oral and written communications techniques to prepare routine responses and to coordinate data and information;
Developing presentation, conducting training sessions and serving as a technical resource for team Managers, and employees by providing guidance on telephone system operations, tools, procedures, and system functions;
Utilizing Microsoft Excel, to manipulate data, and create graphs and reports for analytical reviews;
OR Three full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education in any field of study from an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR PH.D or equivalent doctoral degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR LL.M., if related
OR You may qualify by a combination of experience and education.

GS-11 Level: Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have three (3) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education as indicated above.
 I have a PH.D or equivalent doctoral degree as described above.
 LL.M., if related
 I have an equivalent amount of combined graduate education and experience equal to that described above.
 None of the above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙