Position Title
Bartender - Tradewinds
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26302 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
Completion of this questionnaire is required.


1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
This position may require working nights, weekends, Holidays, and non-consecutive workdays. Are you willing to work these shifts?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in applying for the position of Bartender.  Please fill out the questions below to the best of your abilities.


1.
How many years of experience do you have in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages?
 Two plus years of documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.
 Six months to One year of documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.
 One to Two years of documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.
 Less than six months or no documented experience in mixing and serving alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.


2.
Do you have knowledge of the correct portions and mixtures to use in preparing beverages according to name requests from patrons or cocktail attendants?
 I have knowledge based on a complete menu of expertly crafted and garnished cocktails and a full range of call and well mixed drinks.
 I have knowledge based on a broad menu of well-crafted cocktails and mixed drinks.
 I have knowledge based on a basic menu of well-known beverages.
 I have no knowledge of basic bartending mixology.


3.
This position involves collecting tabs or chits in appropriate amounts and reconcile them with the quantities and prices of items dispensed. How many years of experience do you have in cash handling?
 Two plus years of documented experience in cash handling.
 Six months to One year of documented experience in cash handling.
 One to Two years of documented experience in cash handling.
 Less than six months or no documented experience in cash handling.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙