Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRA-DSSC-13041298-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Aug 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-8 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Specialized experience at this level is demonstrated by the following: Assisting in the evaluation of program effectiveness, supporting logistics for personnel, and performing administrative duties related to travel, training, or purchasing.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-9 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Specialized experience at this level is demonstrated by the following: independently evaluating program operations to recommend improvements, managing budgets or spend plans, analyzing data to identify performance gaps, and obligating, expending, or controlling funds and items with a monetary value of less than $2 million, and procuring goods/services of a similar value
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Specialized experience at this level is demonstrated by the following: Evaluating and analyzing program operations to recommend strategic improvements; formulating, executing, or reallocating budgets and spend plans; analyzing metrics from relational databases to identify performance gaps; and providing logistical or administrative oversight (such as serving as a Contract Officer Representative or processing travel/purchasing requests). (Experience must be reflected in resume).
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that BEST describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


2.
You are responsible for implementing a new organizational improvement plan for volunteer recruiting and training. A volunteer State Chair is skeptical and resistant to the changes. What is the MOST effective approach?

 Build consensus by addressing their specific concerns, explaining the strategic benefits of the changes, and collaboratively adapting the implementation plan to fit their region's unique geographic and community needs.
 Ignore the resistance and allow the State Chair to continue with their current methods to avoid conflict.
 Clearly explain the new policy and request their compliance, emphasizing that it is a nationwide directive from headquarters.
 Persuade them by highlighting how the new plan aligns with the national ESGR strategy and provides essential support for National Guard and Reserve members.
 Escalate the issue to your Branch Chief to enforce the change.


3.
During a mid-year budget review, you discover that a region is failing to meet the mandatory 60% budget threshold for Outreach activities. The region subsequently submits a request for additional funding for an administrative event. How do you handle this request?

 Approve the request to maintain positive stakeholder relations, noting the threshold violation in your files for later.
 Deny the request and remind the region of strict compliance with DoD/ESGR financial controls and policies.
 Deny the request, clearly explain the mandatory 60% outreach threshold requirement, and negotiate with regional stakeholders to help them reallocate funds toward compliant, mission-aligned outreach activities.
 Conditionally approve the request but issue a warning that they must meet the outreach threshold by the next quarter.
 Submit the request to higher reviewer for a decision without providing your own analytical recommendation.


4.
You are tasked with analyzing the effectiveness of a state committee, but standard off- the-shelf analytical metrics are proving inadequate due to the region's unique demographics and conflicting volunteer data. What is the BEST course of action?

 Exclude the anomalous region from your nationwide analysis since the data does not fit the established performance model.
 Develop entirely new evaluation methodologies by analyzing complex metrics from relational databases (e.g., MMS, EventPLUS) to accurately identify performance gaps and propose procedural changes.
 Rely on the standard metrics to complete the analysis, but include a strong disclaimer that the findings may not be fully accurate for this specific region
 Conduct a qualitative analysis by interviewing state committee leaders to supplement the inadequate data and draft an execution analysis.
 Force the data to fit the standard metrics, ignoring the demographic and technical discrepancies.


5.
As a Contract Officer Representative (COR) managing geographically dispersed administrative support contractors, you receive broad, non-specific higher-level guidelines regarding a new travel and expense policy. How do you implement this?

 Wait to implement the changes until higher headquarters issues a more specific,detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).
 Exercise significant judgment to translate the broad guidelines into actionable local policies and proactively teach and mentor contract personnel and committee leaders on the complex new procedures.
 Distribute the broad guidelines directly to the contractors and staff officers, answering questions as they arise to ensure compliance.
 Ignore the new guidelines if they seem too broad to apply practically to your dispersed workforce.
 Handle all the complex travel voucher and expense processing yourself to ensure accuracy, rather than relying on the contractors


6.
You have completed an execution analysis that requires a mid-year budget sweep, taking funds away from an underperforming state committee to reallocate elsewhere. You must present these findings to upper echelons of leadership. What is the MOST effective presentation strategy?

 Present the analytical findings clearly, stating that the budget reallocations are supported by the numbers and are final.
 Prepare a robust, data-driven defense using real-time execution rates, clearly articulate the strategic necessity of the reallocation, and be prepared to negotiate and defend the findings to skeptical stakeholders.
 Present the findings with numerous caveats to distance yourself from the controversial decision of taking funds away from a committee.
 Provide the raw data and financial spreadsheets, allowing leadership to draw their own conclusions about the necessity of the budget sweep.
 Avoid presenting the controversial budget sweep altogether and wait for the underperforming committee to naturally expend their funds.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙