Position Title
SUPV IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-13047870-AR-26-217 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with TNARNG membership within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the understanding of the stages required to automate a work process; experience in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, considering the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in either the federal service or the private sector; experience designing, engineering, implementing, maintaining, and troubleshooting enterprise Local Area Networks (LAN) and Wide Area Networks (WAN); experience applying engineering concepts to complex environments, including virtualized network environments, wireless infrastructures and hybrid cloud networking;  experience integrating cybersecurity requirements into network architecture, which includes implementing Zero Trust Architecture, Risk Management Framework standards, and vulnerability mitigations; experience configuring. Securing, and maintaining large-scale multi-site VPN infrastructures; knowledge of cloud migration and and analyzing complex network performance resiliency and availability issues to develop solutions; experience planning work sequences, setting project controls and coordinating with teams inside and outside of your immediate unit; experience directing, assigning, and reviewing the work of technical personnel, as well as providing technical guidance to leadership and key stakeholders?

 Yes
 No


4.
How would you handle a senior network engineer whose technical performance is slipping, putting a critical infrastructure milestone at risk?



5.
Describe a major network modernization effort (e.g., cloud migration, SD-WAN) you led.



5a.
How did you manage risk and minimize downtime?
 


6.
How do you ensure your network engineering projects maintain compliance with the Risk Management Framework and Authority to Operate requirements?



7.
Describe a critical, enterprise-wide network outage you managed.  How did you lead your team to resolution while managing communications up the chain?



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙