Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12957991M-TSN-0343-9T12 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (MO1937) 333 W. Pershing Road, Kansas City, MO
 B. (TX2038) 3651 S Ih-35, Austin, TX
 C. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


4.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


5.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


6.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


7.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


8.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


10.
What is your current position title?


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


13.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the [USER enter (BOD) names that are included in limitation] business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-9:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes:
- Researching and analyzing organizational procedures, rules, policies, and regulations on area(s) of study.
- Assisting with evaluating program operations and/or administrative support functions to improve its efficiency and effectiveness.
- Assists with project management duties to coordinate and integrate project objectives and recommendations.
- Applying written communication techniques to prepare reports and emails applicable to the operations, which may include programs such as Microsoft PowerPoint and Excel.
- Applying oral communication techniques to present plans and/or proposals that reconcile conflicting interests and points of view.

OR A Master's or equivalent graduate degree
OR Two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Master's or equivalent graduate degree
OR LL.B. or J.D., if related.
OR You may qualify by a combination of experience and education.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a graduate degree as described above.
 LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of experience and graduate education equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-11:
To be eligible for this position, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include at least six (6) of the following:
- Applying analytical and evaluative methods to establish criteria for identifying and measuring the effectiveness of program operations or administrivia support functions.
- Identifying actual and potential problem areas and/or deficiencies within functional programs and administrative activities.
- Assisting with project workload through management principles and processes to perform project management functions, such as planning, scheduling, implementing, and closeout functions.
- Establishing a system to review, control, and report on project status to management and/or senior specialists.
- Recommending courses of action based on studies/reviews conducted which can include changes in work methods, procedures, and techniques to improve baseline measures.
- Applying oral and written communication techniques to present findings, deliver briefs, and recommend solutions by negotiating and reconciling conflicting interests.
- Applying research techniques to review organizational procedures, rules, and policies to perform administrative duties and provide recommendations to improve program effectiveness.
- Applies techniques to the resolution of problems affecting efficiency, effectiveness, or productivity across administrative functions utilizing programs like SharePoint, Adobe, PowerPoint, Excel, etc.

OR A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
OR Three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field of study
OR LL.M., if related.
OR You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. Options for qualifying based on a combination will be identified in the online questions.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience.
 I have a PH.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a doctoral degree in one of the fields described above.
 I have an LLM, if related
 I have a combination or graduate education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-12:
To be eligible for this position, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience must include at least seven (7) of the following:
- Applying analytical methods to establish criteria for identifying and measuring accomplishments and progress, such as revising financial methods and developing novel approaches.
- Recommending actions based on studies/reviews conducted, such as budgetary analysis, that impact work methods, procedures, and techniques (e.g., estimating resource needs).
- Monitoring status and resources to meet goals and objectives; as needed, recommends adjustment of work plans and resources for project accomplishment.
- Managing project workload through management principles and processes to perform project management functions, such as planning, scheduling, implementing, and closeout functions, and evaluating financial projects and studies.
- Applying research techniques to review organizational procedures, rules, and policies to perform administrative duties and provide recommendations to improve program effectiveness.
- Planning, coordinating, and establishing operating methods and procedures for accomplishment of project/mission and directs the development of employee training.
- Identifying actual and potential problem areas and/or deficiencies within functional programs and administrative activities.
- Applying oral communication techniques to present findings, deliver briefings, and negotiate solutions to disputed recommendations
- Applying written communication techniques to prepare project papers, financial reports, manuals, and directives.

Which of the following describes your experience?
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙