Position Title
Supervisory Historian
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13034652-HQ-MJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security civilian employee in the competitive service who meets the following criteria? I have held, or currently hold either:
A permanent position in the competitive service (see block #34 of your SF-50) with the same or higher promotion potential of the position being advertised
If eligible, submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security civilian employee in the competitive service?


If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1). Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the response which best describes your education and/or experience and meeting the basic qualification requirements for Supervisory Historian GS-0170-14.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service to include: Supervising staff, Managing Coast Guard Artifact Program, ans serving as a technical advisoe on service committees.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work.
 Yes
 No


3.
I certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙