Position Title
BASE SERVICES SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12921107-AF-26-088 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E7 in any branch of service and willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 201st RHS
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 193 Special Operations Wing (This includes 193rd SOW, 193rd RSG, 193rd AOG, 211th EIS, 271st CCS, 112th ACS, 203rd Weather Flight, 193rd SOW Det 1, 148th ASOS, PA ANG HQ DET 1)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education, or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration? Do you have experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience, education or training in any position that required compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information? Do you have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled? Do you possess a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management? Do you have experience developing administrative procedures?

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No, I have not.


4.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to someone in this agency.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙