Position Title
Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13070501-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Rehabilitation Counselor GS-0101-12 position.
 
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are minimally qualified for this position. Your responses must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.



Grandfathering provision. All individuals employed as RCs within VHA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held including positive education and certification. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply: (1) They may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the journeyman level (full performance level), or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (2) If a RC who was retained under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee will lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation. (3) RCs initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure/certification/registration that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard, must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation. (4) RCs who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.



INSTRUCTIONS. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.



BASIC REQUIREMENTS for the position of Rehabilitation counselor, GS-0101:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency:
 
Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).
 
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education:

Applicant must possess a  master's degree in rehabilitation counseling or clinical rehabilitation counseling from a rehabilitation counseling program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). If the applicant's degree was granted prior to July 1, 2017, the program must be accredited by the Council on Rehabilitation Education.
OR
A master's degree in counseling or clinical rehabilitation counseling from a college or university accredited by a national or regional accrediting body accredited by Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).
OR
A master's or doctoral degree in a related field of study with course content that emphasized rehabilitation, counseling, disability, therapy, health, employment, wellness, or human development from a college or university accredited by a national or regional accrediting body accredited by CHEA.
OR
Foreign graduates with a degree acceptable by the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification (CRCC). A transcript showing the date degree was conferred must be submitted with your application.
 
Do you meet one of the above requirements? (Transcript must be submitted with application).
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Master's degree: 

*Please provide transcripts* 

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification:

Current, full and unrestricted certification as a certified rehabilitation counselor (CRC) from the CRCC to practice vocational rehabilitation counseling.
 
No Exception policy at the GS-12 Grade Level

Do you have a current, full and unrestricted certificate as a certified rehabilitation counselor?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified indicate N/A.
 
*Please provide copy of certification  showing expiration date*
 
CRC Certificate number:
Date Issued:
Date Expires:
 


Grade Level Requirements -

Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Rehabilitation Counselor, GS-12. Grade Level Requirement Experience:
 
Experience. Completion of one year of professional experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled
 
All qualifying experience you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate your experience in your resume may result in disqualification.

Do you meet the Experience for a GS-12 Rehabilitation Counselor?
 Yes
 No


5.
Rehabilitation Counselor, GS-12 Grade Level Requirement Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
 
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
 
(a) Ability to apply and teach principles and practices of the evidence-based model of individual placement and support, supported employment (IPS, SE), by engaging others in multiple training methods including hands-on, virtual and telephone trainings, utilizing excellent consultative, facilitative and organizational skills as well as coaching/listening skills.
(b) Ability to conduct in person coaching, develop community-wide learning events, and lead mock SE fidelity reviews to provide feedback regarding SE program services and adherence to the SE model.
(c) Skill to apply principles and practices of IPS, SE, psychiatric rehabilitation and recovery principles, customized employment and fidelity scale measures to successfully engage Veterans and care providers in the rehabilitation process.
(d) Skill to apply advanced counseling skills, crisis intervention and personal and family counseling to intercede on behalf of Veterans, their families and significant others needing specific assistance with employment, housing and finances.
 
All qualifying KSAs you possess must be clearly described in your application package. We will not make assumptions when reviewing applications. Failure to demonstrate how you gained each KSA in your resume may result in disqualification. It is strongly recommended that you write to each KSA in your application package.
 
 
Do you meet the Experience for a GS-12 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
 Yes
 No


LICENSURE/CERTIFICATION REMINDER - If a License/Certification is required for the position for which you have applied, License details MUST be provided in EITHER the applicant's Resume or other Supporting Documents.



TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. Failure to provide copy of transcripts will result in NOT being referred.



RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information each job listed:

Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2017 to April 2018)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙