Position Title
Powerplant Operator
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
DE-13006133-26-CMA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


1.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Moderate Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated Public Trust Suitability Background Investigation (T2S or T2RS or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


2.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently possess a valid driver's license?
 Yes
 No


4.
Provide your driver's license number, state in which issued, and expiration date of license.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a permanent Powerplant Operator position for the Bureau of Reclamation. For each question, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience and training. DO NOT overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. Your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification of references as appropriate. THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.


1.
Select the response that best describes your ability to do the work of a journey level powerplant operator without more than normal supervision. Journey level is defined as 4 years or more of experience OR completing a 4-year apprenticeship in power generation OR at least 6 years of military experience in power generation such as that in a power plant or engine room setting. Note: Your response to this question must clearly be reflected in your resume or you will be determined to be not qualified.
 I have performed as a journey level powerplant operator independently and routinely at a hydroelectric power generating facility.
 I have performed as a journey level powerplant operator independently and routinely at a commercial power producing facility. A commercial facility generates power to be marketed to the public through an interconnected system.
 I have completed a 4-year apprenticeship program in the power generation field.
 I have completed at least 6 years of military service in power generation, such as that in a power plant or engine room setting.
 None of the above.


2.
SHORT ANSWER: Follow up to previous question: Indicate the name and location of the hydroelectric power generating facility, military branch OR commercial power producing facility*, OR length of apprenticeship and location as listed in your resume. (A commercial facility generates power to be marketed to the public through an interconnected system.)



3.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience associated with the operation of switchyard equipment, including high voltage circuit breakers, associated disconnects, associated ground switches, and related control or protective equipment.

 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above independently and routinely in switchyards rated at 6.9 KV - 115 KV within the last five years.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above independently and routinely in switchyards rated at 230 KV and/or higher within the last five years.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above at the direction of a more qualified person in switchyards rated at 6.9 KV - 115 KV within the last five years.
 I have been trained on and have operated the types of devices listed above at the direction of a more qualified person in switchyards rated at 230 KV and/or higher within the last five years.
 None of the above.


4.
Select the response that best describes the type of powerplant facility you have operated within the last five years.
Note: Your resume must support your response.

 10 MW or larger hydroelectric generating plant.
 350 MW or larger power generating plant.
 150 MW - 350 MW power generating plant.
 10 MW - 150 MW power generating plant.
 None of the above.


5.
Select the response that describes your experience, education, or training relative to power plant emergency/abnormal conditions and the use of emergency/abnormal procedures.

 I have directed/supervised emergency/abnormal response actions during actual emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have directed/supervised/trained emergency/abnormal response actions during simulated emergency/abnormal conditions.
 I have performed emergency/abnormal response actions during actual or simulated emergency/abnormal conditions as directed.
 I have been trained in the use of emergency/abnormal response procedures.
 None of the above.


6.
Select the powerplant equipment you have operated or used in a professional (commercial or industrial) work environment.

 A. Powerplant recorders and gauges
 B. Communications equipment
 C. Generators, less than 10 MW, excluding diesel generators.
 D. Generators, 10 MW and larger, excluding diesel generators.
 E. Generator auxiliary electrical and/or mechanical support equipment
 F. Generator hydraulic governors
 G. Generator start-stop - local manual.
 H. Generator start-stop - local automatic.
 I. Generator start-stop - remote automatic.
 J. Generator protective relaying
 K. Transmission or distribution protective line relaying
 L. Transmission or distribution protective line relaying
 M. Voltage regulators
 N. Power circuit breakers
 O. Power transformers
 P. Electric motors
 Q. Load and frequency controllers
 R. Motor-generator sets
 S. Manual generator synchronizers
 T. Manual switching.
 U. Sync-check switching.
 V. Large hydraulic gates and valves
 W. Large manually operated air, oil, or water valves.
 X. High voltage substation or power plant stationary ground switches
 Y. None of the above


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


7.
Select the response that describes your highest level of experience, education or training in reading and interpreting drawings, piping diagrams, wiring diagrams and blueprints (electrical and mechanical) to operate equipment associated with a powerplant facility.

 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


8.
Select the types of records and written procedures you have used and maintained.

 A. Power generation (MWH or KWH) produced.
 B. Power consumed (MWH or KWH)
 C. Water flow and storage
 D. Station logs
 E. Clearance procedures (lock out/tag out)
 F. Checklists
 G. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
 H. None of the above.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


9.
Select the response that describes your experience utilizing safety operating documentation, procedures, rules, guidance, and standards to determine methods to resolve conflicting or unclear requirements.

 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


10.
Select the response that describes your experience with safe clearance (lock out/tag out) procedures.

 I have experience as a program manager, or the training and qualification of personnel involved in writing and issuing clearances at power plants.
 I have experience in developing or issuing clearances used in powerplants following written clearance procedures.
 I have experience placing/removing clearances in a power plant following written clearance procedures.
 None of the above.


11.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙