Position Title
Housing Program Technical Specialist
Agency
Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner
Announcement Number
IMP-13068790-26-MW
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this position? (Note: You must meet one of the categories as outlined in the "Clarification from the Agency" section of the job announcement.)
 I am a current HUD employee that is Status eligible.
 I am a current HUD employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am a current HUD employee serving on a Schedule A Disability Appointment.
 I am CTAP eligible.
 I do not meet these eligibility requirements.
2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)? Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Housing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories? Current HUD Office of Housing employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment Current HUD Office of Housing employee serving on a VRA appointment Current HUD Office of Housing employee serving on a Schedule A appointment
 Yes
 No
4.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Housing employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories? Current HUD Office of Housing employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment Current HUD Office of Housing employee serving on a VRA appointment Current HUD Office of Housing serving on a Schedule A appointment
 Yes
 No
5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Anchorage, AK
 Los Angeles, CA
 San Francisco, CA
 Santa Ana, CA
 Denver, CO
 Atlanta, GA
 Chicago, IL
 Louisville, KY
 Baltimore, MD
 Boston, MA
 Jackson County, MS
 Helena, MT
 Albany, NY
 New York, NY
 Greensboro, NC
 Philadelphia, PA
 Pittsburgh, PA
 Columbia, SC
 Houston, TX
 Alexandria, VA
 Seattle, WA
 Milwaukee, WI
2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed. A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No
4.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within 12 months of the opening date of the announcement, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application or have not received one in the last 12 months , you will need to provide a reason in the text box below. (Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question) Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within 12 months of the opening date of this announcement, that includes the final rating? This is a Yes/No question followed by a Short Answer question: If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.
5.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.
6.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO
 Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 Office of Housing
 Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 Office of the Secretary
 Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
HUD-Housing-GS-1101-14-Housing-Program-Tech-Spec
1.
Select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the qualification requirement for this GS-14 level position
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-13 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that included: 1)Developing and executing programmatic marketing and outreach activities, and/or evaluating the effectiveness of oversight, compliance, and training programs and activities.; 2) Coordinating with contractors or other technical experts to plan, implement, and monitor events, deliverables and other administrative activities; AND 3) Interpreting and applying contract requirements, government and agency policies and procedures and program objectives to facilitate the timely completion of deliverables and the resolution of problems.
 My experience is not described in the statement above.
