Position Title
Supervisory Meteorologist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NWS-26-12955267-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Meteorology Series, 1340 because I have:

 A Degree in meteorology, atmospheric science, or other natural science major that included: (1) At least 24 semester (36 quarter) hours of credit in meteorology/atmospheric science including a minimum of: a) Six semester hours of atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics;* b) Six semester hours of analysis and prediction of weather systems (synoptic/mesoscale); c) Three semester hours of physical meteorology; and d) Two semester hours of remote sensing of the atmosphere and/or instrumentation. (2) Six semester hours of physics, with at least one course that includes laboratory sessions.* (3) Three semester hours of ordinary differential equations.* (4) At least nine semester hours of course work appropriate for a physical science major in any combination of three or more of the following: physical hydrology, statistics, chemistry, physical oceanography, physical climatology, radiative transfer, aeronomy, advanced thermodynamics, advanced electricity and magnetism, light and optics, and computer science. * There is a prerequisite or corequisite of calculus for course work in atmospheric dynamics and thermodynamics, physics, and differential equations. Calculus courses must be appropriate for a physical science major. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 Combination of education and experience -- course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the Meteorology Series, 1340.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Supervisory Meteorologist, GS-1340-15 or equivalent grade level in the Federal service:

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Planning, evaluating or leading projects or teams such as assigning work, setting priorities, or providing feedback on work assignments; and Providing guidance on systems used to develop meteorological products.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Two highly experienced employees in the branch have an ongoing interpersonal conflict that is beginning to affect collaboration and team morale. As Supervisor, what is the most appropriate first action?
 Reassign one of the employees to another team to remove the conflict
 Allow the employees to resolve the issue independently due to their seniority
 Meet with the employees to understand the issue, reinforce expectations for professional conduct, and facilitate resolution
 Document the conflict in their performance appraisals without discussing it directly with them


2.
An employee's performance has declined significantly over several months, and informal coaching has not led to improvement. What is the most appropriate supervisory action?
 Wait until the annual performance review to address the issue formally
 Initiate formal performance management actions by clearly documenting expectations and providing the employee an opportunity to improve
 Immediately recommend disciplinary action
 Permanently reassign the employee’s work to other staff members


3.
When making a selection for a vacant position, which of the following is a best practice for a hiring official?
 Selecting the candidate who is most familiar with the team’s culture
 Using consistent evaluation criteria tied directly to the position requirements and documenting the selection decision
 Giving priority to candidates recommended by current employees
 Selecting the candidate with the most years of federal service


4.
A Supervisor is responsible for maintaining an effective workforce capable of supporting evolving mission requirements. Which action best demonstrates proactive supervisory leadership?
 Focusing primarily on resolving current operational issues
 Monitoring employee performance while leaving career development to individual employees
 Identifying skill gaps within the team and supporting training and development opportunities aligned with mission needs
 Assigning training only when employees request it


5.
You must complete several mission-critical projects with limited staff and budget resources. Which supervisory approach best demonstrates effective leadership and resource management?
 Assign all high-priority work to the most technically skilled employee to ensure success
 Prioritize work based on mission requirements and distribute assignments based on staff expertise and workload
 Delay lower-priority projects until additional resources are available
 Personally complete the most critical technical work to ensure accuracy


6.
A critical anomaly is identified during operational field testing (e.g. Beta testing) of software for the nation's weather radar system which intermittently degrades data quality during severe weather events. Several Weather Forecast Offices participating in the Beta test report reduced confidence in warning decision-making. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Direct the test teams to continue the Beta Test of the software to ensure the target release dates are met
 Immediately roll back the software at participating Beta locations without further analysis
 Conduct a test status review meeting with internal and external stakeholders, including the participating Beta Sites to implement a risk mitigation strategy, determine whether immediate roll back is necessary, decide upon suspending field test, and engage engineering for root cause analysis.
 Defer action until the issue can be fully reproduced in a controlled test environment


7.
The Customer Service Center Hotline Call Center begins receiving a surge in calls reporting intermittent outages in weather radar products collection from one region of the country. Initial analysis suggests the issue may involve external provider communications or the external radar display system infrastructure, which both provide transport of the weather radar's products, rather than hardware. Which action best reflects effective operational leadership?

 Recommend field technicians to troubleshoot radar hardware at each site independently
 Elevate the issue through appropriate channels, coordinate with all external infrastructure stakeholders involved in data transport, and ensure status updates and guidance toward resolution are provided to weather radar products central collection and senior management stakeholders
 Wait for the issue to resolve itself since it appears to be outside direct radar system control
 Limit troubleshooting and response effort to only the radar, since this is a Customer Service Center


8.
Multiple weather radar sites experience critical failures requiring depot-level maintenance during a period of heightened severe weather risk. Available Electronics Maintenance Teams are limited, and simultaneous requests are received from: (1) a densely populated region with severe weather outbreaks forecast within 24 - 36 hours, (2) a rural region forecast to experience severe weather within 36 - 48 hours, and (3) a radar site supporting high priority aviation operations with no immediate severe weather threat. Which action best reflects effective resource prioritization and management decisions?
 Deploy teams on a first-come, first-served basis to ensure fairness across all requests
 Prioritize the radar site supporting high priority aviation operations, then address the site with active expected severe weather 36 - 48 hours, and finally the site with weather expected within 24 - 36 hours
 Prioritize response based on mission impact and risk by assigning teams first to the active severe weather region, coordinating contingency coverage for other sites (e.g., adjacent radar data, partner coordination), and planning subsequent deployments as resources become available
 Split available teams evenly across all three locations, even if it delays full restoration at each site


9.
The program is implementing upgrades to an operational network of weather radar systems used for real-time decision support. Which approach best demonstrates effective oversight of the testing and field support from an operations perspective?
 Focus oversight primarily on procurement and implementation phases
 Ensure lifecycle practices are applied across requirements validation, testing and acceptance, operational deployment, operator and maintainer training, and sustainment, including feedback from meteorological and maintenance end users
 Delegate lifecycle operator and maintainer training and Tier 1 maintenance entirely to each field site
 Conduct reviews only when testing issues arise


10.
When recommending a strategic direction to senior management for a major project, it is a good practice to:

 Present only the single most profitable option to avoid confusing the stakeholders with alternative choices.
 Focus exclusively on the long-term benefits while downplaying potential short-term risks to maintain executive buy-in.
 Provide a range of viable options, including a “do nothing” scenario, along with the risks and resource requirements for each.
 Wait until the final implementation phase to provide detailed budget requirements to prevent early project cancellation.


11.
When a program manager identifies a significant variance between the planned performance baseline and the actual progress reported in a monthly status update, which of the following actions best demonstrates effective "measure, control, and evaluate" practices?
 Updating the program schedule to match the current delay so that future reports show the program is back “on track”
 Performing a root-cause analysis of the variance and presenting senior stakeholders with a recovery plan that includes revised resource requirements and risk impacts.
 Increasing the frequency of status meetings with the project teams to ensure that team members are working harder to close the gap.
 Highlighting the variance in the report but deferring corrective action until the next quarterly review to see if the trend self-corrects.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙