Position Title
Orthotist/Prosthetist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12973047-26-ARS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jun 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: This section evaluates if you meet the basic requirements for the position and if you can demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of this position. For each question below, answer yes or no.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Orthotists, prosthetists, or orthotist/prosthetists must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d). Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education:
(1) A bachelor's degree or higher in orthotics and prosthetics from a Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) accredited program.
OR,
(2) A bachelor's degree or higher in any major along with a post-graduate orthotics or prosthetics certificate from a CAAHEP accredited program.

Foreign Graduates. Graduates of foreign degree programs must have proof of a minimum of a Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in orthotics and prosthetics.

Do you currently have the required education for this position? COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your education that qualifies you for this orthotics and prosthetics position. Your education must be documented in your transcripts provided.

 I possess a bachelor's degree or higher in orthotics and prosthetics from a Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) accredited program.
 I possess a bachelor's degree or higher in any major along with a post-graduate orthotics or prosthetics certificate from a CAAHEP accredited program.
 I possess a foreign degree programs must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in orthotics and prosthetics.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not meet the requirements.


3.
Board Certification.

Candidates must be board certified by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics and Prosthetics (ABC) or the Board for Orthotist/Prosthetist Certification (BOC) as an orthotist, prosthetist, or orthotist/prosthetist. The board certificate must be current and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirements for continuing education. Certification as a technician, pedorthist, assistant or fitter does not meet this requirement.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your current licensure status that qualifies you for this position. Your license must be provided as a supporting document if you are licensed.

 I possess the certification for this position.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not meet the requirements.


GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for appointments at grade levels specified.


4.
GS-05 (Entry Level) Grade Requirement:

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Assignments at this grade level are entry level trainee in nature where the individual receives developmental assignments designed to build upon the base knowledge, skills, and abilities. The orthotist/prosthetist at this level receives training and instruction to develop proficiency in essential occupational tasks such as taking measurements, patient communication, and fabrication and fitting of simple appliances. The work is performed under close supervision.

Do you meet the basic requirements to qualify at the GS-05 grade level?

 Yes
 No


5.
GS-07 Grade Requirement:

Experience: One year of creditable experience as an orthotist/prosthetist equivalent to the next lower grade level. (GS-05 grade level experience as an orthotist/prosthetist would include: taking measurements, fabricating and fitting of simple appliances.)

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, biomechanics, kinesiology, physics, and etiology of diseases.
Knowledge of psychology and age-related competency.
Knowledge of materials science including materials such as plastics, composites, metals, and leather commonly used in fabrication.
Ability to use hand and power tools in the fabrication of devices.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing.

Do you meet the grade requirements for the GS-07 level and does your resume clearly demonstrate the KSAs listed above?

 Yes
 No


6.
GS-09 Grade Requirement:

Experience:
(a) Education. Education equivalent to 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree in orthotics and/or prosthetics, provided the applicant's total background demonstrates the core competencies for GS-9 level assignment.
OR,
(b) Experience. Completion of 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level which demonstrates possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to provide orthotic/prosthetic services in a hospital setting.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to attend clinics and participate as a member of the treatment team. This includes knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, biomechanics, kinesiology, physics, and etiology of diseases as well as knowledge of psychology and age-related competencies.
Knowledge of the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS).
Ability to conduct clinical patient analyses such as gait, range of motion, life style, etc., for patients with complex but typical conditions.
Ability to take necessary measurements, casts, or scans to develop positive molds of the affected area of the body to create orthoses and/or prostheses.

Select the response that best demonstrates your ability to qualify at the GS-09 grade level. (Resume must clearly demonstrate KSAs listed above.)

 I have education equivalent to 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree in orthotics and/or prosthetics and can demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities listed above.
 I have 1 year of experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level which demonstrates possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to provide orthotic/prosthetic services in a hospital setting.
 None of the above apply to me; therefore, I do not qualify at the GS-09 grade level.


7.
GS-11 Grade Requirement:

Experience: Completion of 1 year of experience as an orthotist/prosthetist equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to provide orthotic/prosthetic services in a hospital setting.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to attend clinics and participate as a fully participating member of the treatment team with considerable influence in the development of the treatment plan. This includes advanced knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, biomechanics, kinesiology, physics, and etiology of diseases as well as knowledge of psychology and age related competencies.
Ability to conduct clinical patient analyses such as gait, range of motion, life style, etc., for patients with a wide range of complex medical conditions which include unusual problems or complications, and to design unique or innovative devices to accommodate those conditions.
Ability to recognize physical abnormalities, deviations, and complicating conditions with potentially life threatening implications.

Do you meet the grade requirements for the GS-11 level and does your resume clearly demonstrate the KSAs listed above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙