Position Title
Paralegal Specialist-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-095002-13086751-TJB
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 15, 2026
Eligibilities
.
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager. We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 Edwards AFB, CA
 Eglin AFB, FL
 Nellis AFB, NV
 Holloman AFB, NM
 Arnold AFB, TN
 Hill AFB, UT
NH-0950-02 Paralegal Specialist H21MTS00066
.
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a PARALEGAL SPECIALIST, NH-0950-02. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.
1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of PARALEGAL SPECIALIST, NH-0950-02. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Due to the use of 120-day rosters, this period of experience may be completed within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 I have, or within 120 days will have at 1 year of general experience, which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-04), level, pay band (NH-01), or equivalent (pay schedule, pay band, etc.). Specialized experience is preparing monthly and annual reports by tracking, assembling, and analyzing statistics and inputs, assisting with substantive review and preparation of actions/responses relating to military and civilian personnel matters, including but not limited to labor and employment law disputes and litigation, develop findings, recommendations, and justifications concerning Office of Staff Judge Advocate (OSJA) courses of action, manage designs, develops, upgrades, installs, and maintains office automation systems, including hardware, software, and voice mail communications systems for the Law Center. Maintain and serve as administrator for Local Area Network (LAN) and jukebox server for data storage.
 I have, or within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement will have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have, or within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement will have, equivalent combination of successfully completed post high school education and experience directly related to the work of the position as outlines above that meets the requirements of the position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I do not have the experience/education such as described in A, B, or C above.
2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
