Position Title
GOLF COURSE MANAGER 2,500 Retention Bonous after 180 days
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12918427 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 24, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least three years of experience managing a golf course, including pro shop, grounds, and food & beverage operations?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which statement best describes your experience with golf pro shop operations and inventory control?
 I have extensive experience overseeing pro shop operations and inventory systems independently.
 I have experience managing inventory and daily pro shop operations.
 I have basic knowledge or limited experience.
 I have no experience in this area.


3.
Which statement best describes your experience with budgeting, accounting, or financial management?
 I have extensive experience managing budgets and financial operations independently.
 I have experience assisting with budgeting or financial tasks.
 I have basic knowledge or limited experience.
 I have no experience in this area.


4.
Which statement best describes your leadership and supervisory experience?
 I have extensive leadership experience, including supervising staff, making decisions, and directing operations.
 I have regular supervisory experience managing staff.
 I have led small teams or occasionally supervised others.
 I have no supervisory experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙