Position Title
HR SPEC (EMPL BEN/COMPENSATION) - TITLE 5
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
GA-13070450-AR-26-263 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the Occupational Questionnaire. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability. It is important to note that all of your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be rated ineligible.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a HR Specialist at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you advises and counsels management, employees, annuitants, and family members of deceased employees by interpreting, applying, and explaining retirement and insurance laws, regulations, and policies on available retirement insurance benefits, death benefits, entitlements/options.?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you researches and interprets appropriate regulations to provide advice to employees concerning reinstatement of insurance, conversion of life insurance and features of the programs and options associated with retirement.?


3a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


4.
Do you determines type of separation and completion of eOPF maintenance for documents?


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


5.

Do you have experience coordinating dissemination of information


5a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


6.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙