Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRT-RDH-13001929 DEU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


4.

I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 I DO NOT certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.


5.
You may be required to complete a pre-employment security screening and background investigation, which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 I agree to a complete pre-employment security screening and background investigation, which includes a drug screening.
 I do not accept this condition.


6.
I have read the full vacancy announcement on USAJOBS and understand the requirements laid out under Required Documents section. I understand that failure to provide a required document may result in my application being rated ineligible, incomplete, or that I may be rated based on the information I do provide. I further understand that my resume must contain sufficient information about my work experience in order for me to receive credit.

Refer to the USAJOBS job opportunity announcement for the full list of required documents for each group of applicant.
See What Types of Documents Might I Have to Provide? (USAJOBS) for additional information about documentation.
See the Resume Writing Tutorial for more information about resume requirements.
 Yes
 No


7.

The duty location for this position is in Washington, DC. If you are outside the National Capital Region (NCR), (as defined by the Office of Personnel Management), are you willing to relocate?
 I am outside of the NCR and understand the position is in Washington, DC. and will relocate.
 I live within the NCR.
 I will not relocate.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


8.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


9.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


10.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


11.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


12.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


13.
If selected, you may be required to serve a one-year probationary period. Do you accept this condition of employment?
 I accept this condition of employment.
 I DO NOT accept this condition of employment.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Paralegal Specialist, GS-0950, position with the Department of Justice. Your response to this Assessment Questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, such as your resume, will be evaluated to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification.

Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses.  Your resume must clearly reflect examples of your selected responses.  If selected for an interview, you may be asked to give specific examples during your interview. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you from consideration for this position. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-9, Paralegal Specialist work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 federal grade level (1) taking notes during attorney proffers and witness interviews and preparing memoranda from those notes; AND (2) performing legal research to supply information for inclusion in memoranda, briefs, and similar documents.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have successfully completed 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I have successfully completed a LL. or J. D.
 I have a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
If your response is "E", you must provide how many months of specialized experience and the number of semester hours you have completed to meet this requirement.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform GS-11, Paralegal Specialist work. If your highest level of education is not described below, choose the letter that describes experience or lower-level education that you do have. Mark only 1 response.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-9 federal grade level (1) taking notes during attorney proffers and witness interviews and preparing memoranda from those notes; AND (2) performing legal research to supply information for inclusion in memoranda, briefs, and similar documents; AND (3) providing guidance and advice to junior paralegals and/or distribute assignments to junior paralegals on behalf of attorneys.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have successfully completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I have successfully completed a LL.M.
 I have a combination of experience and education. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
If your response is "E", you must provide how many months of specialized experience and the number of semester hours you have completed to meet this requirement.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙