Position Title
Health System Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13062547-26-LDH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
What is the highest grade you have held on a non-temporary basis in the federal service? If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


3.
What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Systems Specialist position. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documentation.


Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one statement below that best describes your experience, education or combination of experience and education to meet the basic requirements for this position at the GS-11 level.


1.
Specialized Experience and/ or Education: GS-11 You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following:
Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems;
Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and
Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.
OR,

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level.
To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or an equivalent doctoral degree or LL.M. if related. Major study must be -- hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. (A transcript must be submitted with your application package.)

OR,

Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: A combination of specialized experience and education required to qualify at the GS-11 level as described above. To calculate the combination of education and experience, determine the amount of experience you have as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level. Then determine the amount of education you have as a percentage of the education required for the grade level. Add the two percentages; the total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify for the grade level. For the GS-11, only graduate education in excess of the Master's degree semester hours (2 years) may be used to qualify. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)

To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to the GS-09 level in Federal service to qualify at the grade 11. NOTE: Evidence of specialized experience must be supported by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held. Please provide such documentation on resume.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal service.
 I have Ph. D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. I understand transcripts must be submitted to substitute education for specialized experience.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education. (The first 2 years of graduate study are not qualifying for GS-11.) I understand transcripts must be submitted to substitute education to combine with specialized experience
 I do not have the specialized experience, education substitution or combination of these to meet this requirement.


Resume Reminder - ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) Employer's Name Employer's City and State Job title (Federal/Military jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc), Duties (be as detailed as possible). Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for.

We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


2.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed demonstrates the KSAs for the grade(s).
 I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy and understand I will NOT be considered for this position.


Time-in-Grade Reminder- You are required to provide SF-50(s) that show your time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: (a.) Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or (b.) Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or (c.) SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


3.
I understand the requirement for providing the required SF50(s) for eligibility and time in grade.
 Yes, I have read and provided the required current SF-50(s) to support time in grade requirements.
 No, I did not provide the required SF50(s), and I understand I may not be referred.


SF-50(s) Reminder- Applicants who are current Federal employees must upload a copy of their SF-50(s), dated in the current calendar year, with application. An SF-50(s) that shows your eligibility to apply for this position must be submitted with your application materials. Failure to provide the required SF-50(s) will result in NOT being referred.


Documentation Reminder - You must submit all required documents with your application. Please refer to the "required documents" section of the announcement. Failure to provide the required documents will result in NOT being referred.


4.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instruction and failure to provide the required documents will result in NOT being referred.

 I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement that apply to me. I understand that failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙