Position Title
Senior Disclosure Specialist (Privacy, Govt Liaison, and Disclosure)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13032618B-PVN-306-12 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. CA7226, Fresno, CA
 L. CA8513, Lake Forest, CA
 M. CA0281, Oakland, CA
 N. CA0316, San Diego, CA
 O. CO1656, Denver, CO
 P. CO1811, Denver, CO
 Q. FL1382, Daytona Beach, FL
 R. FL0067, Jacksonville, FL
 S. FL2437, Plantation, FL
 T. FL2402, Tampa, FL
 U. GA2410, Macon, GA
 V. GA2713, Smyrna, GA
 W. ID4252, Idaho Falls, ID
 X. IN0133, Indianapolis, IN
 Y. IN1778, Terre Haute, IN
 Z. KY3005, Covington, KY
 AA. KY2032, Covington, KY
 AB. MD0055, Baltimore, MD
 AC. MI0800, Detroit, MI
 AD. MO1937, Kansas City, MO
 AE. MO0106, Saint Louis, MO
 AF. NY6385, White Plains, NY
 AG. OH0189, Cincinnati, OH
 AH. PA0809, Philadelphia, PA
 AI. PR4066, Bayamon, PR
 AJ. PR4001, Guaynabo, PR
 B. SC1149, North Charleston, SC
 C. TN2709, Franklin, TN
 D. TN0005, Memphis, TN
 E. TX2038, Austin, TX
 F. TX2775, Bryan, TX
 G. TX0284, Dallas, TX
 H. TX3077, Fort Worth, TX
 I. UT1434, Ogden, UT
 J. WA0064, Spokane, WA
 K. WA8102, Yakima, WA


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


13.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the Privacy, Govt Liaison, and Disclosure business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE FOR GS-12: You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Applying disclosure Legislation, statutes, Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 6103, the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the IRM, and other guidelines to effectively deal with the release or non-release of information on complex requests for IRS records including working knowledge of -and familiarity with- Exam, Collection and Appeals administrative case files, forms, and workpapers.
Experience using IDRS and other IRS systems to effectively research and respond to complex questions concerning the release of information, including federal tax information (FTI) involving Privacy Act, FOIA, and IRC Section 6103 to requesters, taxpayers, representatives, and/or government agencies.
Experience applying a wide range of analytical techniques to resolve complex technical problems affecting both internal and external IRS customers where disclosure statutes and guidelines must be interpreted and applied.
Experience utilizing oral and written communication techniques including preparing reports, documenting case files within an inventory management system, and scheduling meetings with both internal and external customers to resolve case processing issues.
Experience managing an assigned inventory consisting of multiple workstreams requiring interpretation and communication on policy and relevant statutes, while working independently on an array of diverse and complex matters.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one (1) year of experience at the next lower level applying disclosure Legislation, statutes, Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 6103, the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), the IRM, and other guidelines to effectively deal with the release or non-release of information on complex requests for IRS records including working knowledge of -and familiarity with- Exam, Collection and Appeals administrative case files, forms, and workpapers?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one (1) year of experience at the next lower level using IDRS and other IRS systems to effectively research and respond to complex questions concerning the release of information, including federal tax information (FTI) involving Privacy Act, FOIA, and IRC Section 6103 to requesters, taxpayers, representatives, and/or government agencies?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one (1) year of experience at the next lower level applying a wide range of analytical techniques to resolve complex technical problems affecting both internal and external IRS customers where disclosure statutes and guidelines must be interpreted and applied?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one (1) year of experience at the next lower level utilizing oral and written communication techniques including preparing reports, documenting case files within an inventory management system, and scheduling meetings with both internal and external customers to resolve case processing issues?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have one (1) year of experience at the next lower level managing an assigned inventory consisting of multiple workstreams requiring interpretation and communication on policy and relevant statutes, while working independently on an array of diverse and complex matters?
 Yes
 No


6.
Which of the following describes your work experience?
 A. Developed job aids
 B. Conducted classroom instruction
 C. Conducted training programs or workshops
 D. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (SME)
 E. Served as On-the-Job Instructor (OJI)
 F. Presented to customers or managers on work procedures or processes
 G. None of the above


7.
Which of the following statements describe your experiences interacting within a team?
 A. Resolved interpersonal conflicts related to operational issues
 B. Facilitated or led discussion during team meetings
 C. Formulated an action plan for the team to ensure progress
 D. Served on a task force, team,or special project
 E. Led a task force, team, or special project
 F. None of the above


8.
Which of the following demonstrates your level of technical knowledge?
 A. I have applied the FOIA Act exemptions in the performance of my assigned duties.
 B. I have applied the Privacy Act in the performance of my assigned duties.
 C. I have applied IRC §6103 in the performance of my assigned duties.
 D. I have used research and investigation techniques to identify and resolve complex tax law issues such as Net Operating Loss, Passive Activities, Trust Fund Recovery Penalties, FOIA, Capital Gains and Losses, Syndicated Conservation Easement, Nominee Lien, and Alter Ego in the performance of my assigned duties.
 E. I have researched tax laws and regulations in the performance of my assigned duties.
 F. None of the above


9.
Which decision making tasks have you performed within the IRS?
 A. Read voluminous reports and extracted pertinent data
 B. Made recommendations for determinations by applying set guidelines
 C. Summarized decisions to management and customers
 D. Justified and defended decisions to management
 E. None of the above


10.
Which of the following best describes your IRS Business Unit knowledge?
 I have regular communication with other business units in the IRS.
 I have ordered/received/coordinated the exchange of documents from other Business Units within the IRS.
 I have located and obtained tax records from other business units using IDRS.
 None of the above.


11.
What types of written responses have you provided in the past?
 A. Written communications to peers and/or immediate supervisor regarding work products or processes.
 B. Composed instructions to a large audience (i.e., department, CPE) explaining how to complete a task assignment.
 C. Composed or drafted a key message or technical/procedural update individually, as a team, or in a pilot.
 D. Wrote a section of the IRM or composed a white paper proposal to Director or other executive.
 E. None of the above


12.
Which of the following describes your experience verbally communicating with others?
 A. I have resolved tax issues with external stakeholders such as state or local governments, practitioner groups, community organizations, etc.
 B. I have explained complex tax matters such as Net Operating Loss, Passive Activities, Trust Fund Recovery Penalties, FOIA, 6103, Capital Gains and Losses, Syndicated Conservation Easement, Nominee Lien and Alter Ego to internal or external customers.
 C. I have developed and delivered information (e.g., updates, feedback, alerts, or procedural changes on complex tax issues on topics such as Net Operating Loss, Passive Activities, Trust Fund Recovery Penalties, , FIOA, 6103, Capital Gains and Losses, Syndicated Conservation Easement, Nominee Lien and Alter Ego to internal or external customers.
 D. I have delivered informational presentations to upper management.
 E. I have negotiated difficult or controversial customer issues.
 F. None of the above


13.
Which of the following describes your experience related to Freedom of Information Act guidelines?
 A. Researched guidelines regarding a request made by the taxpayer pursuant to Freedom of Information Act.
 B. Referred taxpayer to the Disclosure Office regarding a request made under Freedom of Information Act.
 C. Processed a Freedom of Information Act request.
 D. Assisted in applying Freedom of Information Act exemptions/exclusions.
 E. None of the above


14.
Which of the following describes your experience related to Privacy Act guidelines?
 A. Researched guidelines regarding a request made by the taxpayer pursuant to Privacy Act.
 B. Referred taxpayer to the Disclosure Office regarding a request made under Privacy Act.
 C. Processed a Privacy Act request.
 D. None of the above


15.
Which of the following describes your experience related to IRC 6103 guidelines?
 A. Researched guidelines regarding a request made by the taxpayer pursuant to IRC 6103.
 B. Referred taxpayer to the Disclosure Office regarding a request made under IRC 6103.
 C. Processed an IRC 6103 request.
 D. Assisted in applying exemptions under IRC 6103.
 E. Provided tax administrative records upon request under IRC 6103 (Direct Release)
 F. None of the above


16.
Which of the following describes your experience related to managing your workload?
 A. Managed inventory or case load to ensure timely processing
 B. I have utilized FOAIXpress to manage my inventory
 C. Prioritized work to meet deadlines
 D. None of the above


17.
What level of experience do you have using various Microsoft Office products?
 A. Created graphs or spreadsheet in Excel
 B. Developed presentations in PowerPoint
 C. Experience using Adobe/Acrobat (i.e., applying redactions/Portfolio)
 D. Experience in navigating TEAMS/SharePoint (i.e., sharing files, channels, document storage)
 E. Experience in navigating OneDrive (i.e., saving/sharing documents)
 F. None of the above


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙