Position Title
Maintenance Worker Supervisor (Maintenance Worker Foreman)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
SPG-26-13034208 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


2.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


3.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


6.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS
LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and material needs; and/or I have provided training to new workers.
 I have experience leading co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools, and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers.
 I have experience supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment, and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices, or intermediate workers.
 I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew.
 I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments.
 None of the above.
 I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.


3.
In a correctional setting, a Maintenance Worker Supervisor must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience supervising individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention, or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization.
 I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in correctional institutions.
 I have experience as a foreman or staff member in a correctional setting supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work.
 None of the above.
 I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes, and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems.


4.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must be knowledgeable of and have the ability to follow carpentry practices, such as taking precise measurements and keeping strict tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments, and other practices used in construction and maintenance activities. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience
 I have worked as a carpenter, brick-mason, or other construction work for homebuilders; and/or I have performed assigned tasks under the supervision of a foreman; and/or as a sub-contractor, I have performed finish work in homes being constructed; and/or I have independently performed the tasks of the trade involved.
 While self-employed, I have performed various types of construction and maintenance work such as: constructed garages and sheds, remodeled interiors of homes, converted basements into recreation rooms, etc.; and/or I have converted ideas of homeowners into drawings and specifications, including price estimates.
 I have worked as an assistant to a self-employed construction or maintenance man; and/or I have performed various types of construction or maintenance tasks as instructed; and/or I have worked as a crew member for a building contractor; and/or I have erected framework, laid sub-flooring and performed other tasks as directed.
 I have performed as sole maintenance person for a small plant; and/or I have repaired or altered various articles and end equipment; and/or I have erected partitions and made alterations to rooms and offices.
 None of the above.


5.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications, such as blueprints, manuals, sketches and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have followed blueprints and drawings to assemble prepared materials; and/or I have followed sketches and instructions from crew leaders in performing required tasks.
 I have followed drawings and blueprints on all types of construction and maintenance tasks; and/or I have used technical manuals for specifications; and/or I have sketched rough drawings; and/or I have followed work orders, sketches and instructions from section foremen to perform all types of construction and maintenance work.
 I have used engineer's blueprints for model homes and translated for material requirements; and/or I have produced sketches for crew members for various sections; and/or I have checked work for strict compliance with blueprint specifications.
 None of the above.
 While self employed, I have converted ideas of homeowners into drawings and specifications; and/or I have sketched drawings and estimated materials from specifications.


6.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have the ability to lay out work and structures from blueprints, and use measuring tools common to the carpentry trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have followed blueprints in laying out pre-ordered materials; and/or I have laid out portions of pre-fabricated buildings at the direction of a section foreman; and/or following directions and drawings of a crew leader, I have laid out sections, framework and some finishing work.
 I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined the exact needs of material; and/or I have laid out work to be completed; and/or from work orders, I have sketched/laid out instructions for all types of finishing work for newly constructed homes.
 From complex blueprints, I have figured types of materials needed and planned the layout of entire buildings; and/or I have experience in using fine measurements in prescribing work to be done; and/or I have sketched drawings from blueprints for others to follow in laying out sections; and/or based on ideas from homeowners, I have developed plans, sketched drawings, performed all measurements, estimated materials needed, and laid out work and including finishing work.
 None of the above.


7.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of and the ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I possess a well grounded knowledge of hand and power tools relevant to the general building trade; and/or I have the knowledge of and the ability to use power and hand tools as intended.
 I have instructed and provided technical direction in the use of various hand tools and equipment required to perform tasks; and/or I have the ability to determine proper operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunction are found; and/or while self-employed, I have instructed others in the use of all hand and power tools for the general building trade.
 I possess enough knowledge of equipment to use properly on routine tasks and seek assistance for more complex projects; and/or as a crew member, I have used hand tools and have limited experience using basic power tools.
 None of the above.


8.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have knowledge of the properties, purposes and uses of the various materials used in the general building trades. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience in determining the type of materials needed from specifications, based on knowledge of materials; and/or, as a sub-contractor, I have determined the proper material for various types of finishing work performed.
 While self-employed, I have determined the type of materials to be used for jobs; and/or I have inspected, accepted and rejected material to guarantee quality and adherence; and/or from specifications, I have ordered and inspected quality of bricks, blocks, lumber, tile.
 I have worked with all types of materials used in building housing framework; and/or I have assembled, as instructed, using proper size and type of nails, screws, bolts, etc.; and/or as a crew member, I am familiar with various materials used in the finish work of houses.
 None of the above.
 As a maintenance worker in a plant or factory, I have determined the types of materials needed for alterations; and/or I have estimated and ordered all materials necessary to perform a wide variety of remodeling and alterations.


9.
Maintenance Worker Supervisors must have the ability to assemble, make, install, test, repair and perform the tasks of the position. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have performed maintenance and installation related to drywall, doors and windows, concrete and masonry products, flooring and interior finishes, plumbing, and welding equipment.
 I have completed a trade school program in maintenance or manufacturing; and/or I have worked as an apprentice in the construction industry under direct supervision of master tradesman.
 I have instructed subordinates how to hang and finish drywall, construct doors and windows, pour and finish concrete, lay block and brick walls, erect steel structures, lay tile (vinyl and ceramic), complete various types of plumbing tasks, install drop ceilings, repair glass, repair fence, repair damage to doors, paint, and weld multiple types of metal with various types of welding equipment.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙