Position Title
Archeological Technician
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
CATEMP-26-12957417-AA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Which of the following best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-5 level for this position?
 I have twelve months of specialized experience in work related to the duties of this position equivalent to the GS-04 level. I have provided this information in my resume.
 I have completed 180 quarter/120 semester credit hours in college. I have provided this information in my resume and have a transcript to verify my course work.
 I have a combination of work experience and education described above. I have provided this information in my resume and have a transcript to verify my course work.
 I do not have a combination of education and work experience described above.


2.
Which of the following best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-6 level for this position?
 I have twelve months of specialized experience related to the duties of this position equivalent to the GS-05. I have provided this information in my resume.
 I have completed 24 quarter/9 semester credit hours of graduate education in the field of archeology or other related course work. I have provided this information in my resume and have a transcript to verify my course work
 I have a combination of work experience and education described above. I have provided this information in my resume and have a transcript to verify my course work.
 I do not have the work experience or education described above.


3.
Which of the following best describes your education and/or experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for the GS-7 level for this position?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 level in archaeology. This experience includes performing professional archaeological work such as participating in archaeological field surveys or excavations, assisting with artifact analysis, preparing cultural resource documentation, or supporting compliance with historic preservation laws and regulations.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate-level education (18 semester hours or equivalent) in archaeology or a closely related field that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform professional archaeological work.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience that, when combined, meets the equivalent of one year of specialized experience at the GS-6 level in archaeology.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


4.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙