Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13022804-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Colfax, LA
 B. Vicksburg, MS


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Equipment Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification.Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equipment Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Engineering Equipment Operator duties; operating a variety of heavy equipment which includes but are not limited to bulldozers with 8'-12'power angle-dozer blade and power winch, end loaders, fork-lifts, scrapers, dump trucks, tractor trailers up to 65 tons, diesel powered motor grader, and soil stabilizers; and perform maintenance on roads such as erosion repair. I am skilled in new groundbreaking for fire breaks and roads, erosion repair on steep slopes and levees. I am skilled in applying insecticides or herbicides using various types of backpack mounted and vehicle mounted spraying devices. I am skilled in operating wide variety of lawn care equipment. I am skilled in making carpentry repairs, painting a variety of surfaces, making plumbing repairs, and performing masonry work. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Engineering Equipment Operator duties; operating a variety of heavy equipment which includes but are not limited to bulldozers with 8'-12' power angle-dozer blade, end loaders, fork-lifts, scrapers, dump trucks, tractor trailers up to 65 tons, diesel powered motor grader and soil stabilizers; and perform maintenance on roads such as erosion repair. I can perform groundbreaking for fire breaks and roads, erosion repair on steep slopes and levees. I applied insecticides or herbicides using various types spraying devices. I have operated wide variety of lawn care equipment. I have performed carpentry repairs, painting a variety of surfaces, making plumbing repairs, and performing masonry work. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some Engineering Equipment Operator duties. I can operate bulldozers, end loaders, forklifts, scrapers, dump trucks, tractor trailers, diesel powered motor grader and perform maintenance on roads such as erosion repair. I have operated weed eaters, push and riding type lawn mower. I have assisted in carpentry repairs, painting a variety of surfaces, making plumbing repairs, and performing masonry work. I work supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common Engineering Equipment Operator duties. I can operate bulldozers, end loaders, forklifts, scrapers, dump trucks, and tractor trailers. I have operated weed eaters, push and riding type lawn mower. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Engineering Equipment Operator duties. I can operate weed eaters, push and riding type lawn mowers.
 I do not possess the abilities describes above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙