Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
345-26-AW-13006686-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist GS-0901-10 position. This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA)  Regional Office employee servicing at the vacancy location and Veterans Affairs (VA) Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible. You must submit documentation to verify your eligibility. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees. 

We will review your application and responses to determine if you are among the most qualified candidates for this position. Please note that all experience and education listed are subject to verification through investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation to substantiate your qualifications, or to demonstrate your ability to perform certain tasks through practical assessments.

Kindly ensure that your responses are accurate and complete before submitting the questionnaire. We encourage you to read the entire announcement carefully and review your responses thoroughly.


This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Phoenix, AZ Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION

Are you currently a permanent employee of the Phoenix, AZ VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT

Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS-09 grade or higher within the past 52 weeks must meet the applicable time-in-grade requirements. Please note: An SF-50 documenting your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. 

To substantiate your claim, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (excluding award or general adjustment SF-50s). Some applicants may need to submit multiple SF-50s to fully demonstrate their eligibility. For additional details, please refer to the "Required Documents" section.

Applicants eligible to bypass time-in-grade requirements must provide supporting documentation within their application package.

Kindly select the appropriate response below for each grade level to confirm your eligibility.
 I have held a GS-09 or higher within the past 52 weeks.
 I have held a GS-10 or higher grade.
 Neither A or B


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


3.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS

To qualify at the GS-10 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as:
(1) Experience that has demonstrated the capability of being a self-reliant decision-maker and possessing the ability to work independently when providing customer service benefits counseling and claims processing.
(2) The individual must possess in-depth knowledge of researching relevant subject matter.
(3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs.
 I possess at least one year of GS-09 level specialized experience in the Federal service, or an equivalent level of public or private sector experience. This experience includes counseling individuals orally and in writing regarding benefits available through state, federal, or local benefit programs.
 I have earned two and half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position (must submit transcripts).
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond two and a half years of progressively higher level graduate education and will provide transcripts as supporting documentation.
 I do not possess the experience or education as described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙