Position Title
Senior Financial Economist
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13062816 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


8.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


9.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-14, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of
difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this
position is defined as:
- Experience performing technical analysis of loan or loan guarantee arrangements, including evaluating financing
terms and conditions, pricing calculations, options, and related loan terms for compliance with applicable federal
policies and requirements; AND
- Experience coordinating loan transactions with federal borrowers and other stakeholders and applying applicable
loan management policies, procedures, and program requirements throughout the transaction lifecycle; AND
- Experience conducting comprehensive counterparty analysis and financial modeling,


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment,
job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Basic Requirements
Degree: economics, that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.

OR

Combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.

Evaluation of Experience
Examples of qualifying experience include:

individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation;
supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or
teaching assignments in a college or university that included both class instruction in economics subjects and one of the following (1) personal research that produced evidence of results, (2) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (3) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.
Experience in related fields that did not involve the use and understanding of economic principles and theories may not be used as qualifying experience for these positions. Special attention on this point should be given to certain types of work that may or may not have provided professional economic experience. The following examples of work require special care in such determinations:

economic statistics;
industrial surveys;
management of individual business enterprises, including farms;
industrial planning;
writing or editorial work in economic subjects; and
financial market analysis.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you meet the basic education requirements as listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙