Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (SYSANALYSIS)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADMDC-26-12917435-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Seaside, CA
 B. San Antonio, TX
 C. Alexandria, VA


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 For the Information Technology Specialist (SYSANALYSIS), GS-2210-13, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Experience working with broad objectives to independently develop project plans, resolve intricate, controversial, or unprecedented issues with minimal supervision. Proven ability to apply new methods and resolve most conflicts that arise during a project's lifecycle. In-depth experience applying a wide variety of processes to the analysis of complex IT issues across the full systems development life cycle (SDLC). Experience defining business requirements and designing functional-technical specifications in a matrix environment, integrating multiple and rapidly evolving technology Experience with personal contacts and regular meetings with senior officials, managers from outside the agency (including other federal agencies and DoD leadership), consultants, and contractors. Demonstrated ability to persuade managers and stakeholders with diverse viewpoints to accept and implement findings and recommendations, especially when encountering resistance due to organizational conflict or resource constraints.
 My experience is not reflected in the statement above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙