Position Title
Financial Management Specilaist
Agency
U.S. Army Cyber Command
Announcement Number
DA-26-13052821-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army Cyber Excepted Service (CES) Employee

Do you meet the following?
Current Department of the Army CES employee;
Supporting documentation:  You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action that reflects "UKM" in Block 5-C, "0", "1", "2", or "3" in block 24 (Tenure), "2" in block 34 (Position Occupied), and, if applicable, your highest grade held on a permanent basis along with your application/resume package.

To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Army Cyber Excepted Service (CES) employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current DoD Cyber Excepted Service (CES) Employee (non-Army)

Do you meet the following?
Current Department of Defense (i.e., Air Force, Navy, Marines, USCYBERCOM, DISA, DOD CIO) CES employee;
Supporting documentation:  You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action that reflects "UKM" in Block 5-C, "0", "1", "2", or "3" in block 24 (Tenure), "2" in block 34 (Position Occupied), and, if applicable, your highest grade held on a permanent basis along with your application/resume package.

To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

Are you a current DoD Cyber Excepted Service Employee applying from outside of Army?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Financial Management Specialist position with Department of Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Financial Management Specialist at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Analyzing cost and budget information to support effective financial planning and program execution, 2) Reviewing financial management policies and procedures to support effective budgeting and funding for assigned programs, and 3) Developing budget and financial plans to meet program needs and ensure resources are used efficiently.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙