Position Title
DON PATHWAYS INTERNSHIP (STUDENT TRAINEE ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURE)
Agency
Naval Air Systems Command
Announcement Number
DE-12928125-26-WBO Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a retired civil service federal employee seeking reemployment?

If yes, you are required to submit a copy of your retirement SF-50 (or equivalent).

The Department of Defense (DoD) and Department of Navy (DON) policy on employment of annuitants will be used in determining eligibility of annuitants. Annuitants reemployed in the Department of Defense receive full annuity and salary upon appointment. They are not eligible for retirement contributions, to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, nor to a supplemental or re-determined annuity for the reemployment period. Discontinued service retirement annuitants (i.e. retired under section 8336(d)(1) or 8416(b)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code) appointed to the Department of Defense may elect to be subject to retirement provisions of the new appointment, as appropriate.

Policy information may be found at: http://www.secnav.navy.mil/donhr/Documents/CivilianJobs/FedCivAnnuitants.pdf

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a student that has been accepted for enrollment or are enrolled at least half-time in a high school or home-school curriculum approved by a State or local governing body, an accredited college (including technical, vocational trade schools, two or four year colleges/universities), a graduate or professional school (e.g., law school, medical school, etc.) or a Certificate Program in a qualifying educational institution as defined by 5 CFR 362.102, equivalent to at least one academic year of full-time study, that is part of an accredited, college-level, technical, trade, vocational or business school curriculum?

If eligible, you must provide acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility through transcripts, letters, records or statements issued from the governing body or institution, and veterans' documentation, if applicable, with your completed application.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following:

I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  Spouses may exercise their spouse preference and priority status through the application-based process up to 30 calendar days prior to the military sponsor's reporting date to the new duty station or upon relocation anytime thereafter during the sponsor's tour. Spouses who do not initially relocate with their sponsor cannot exercise spouse preference and priority status until they are actually residing in the commuting area of the sponsor's duty station.

NOTE 3:  You must include a completed copy of the UPDATED Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist found here along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP. Acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility includes at a minimum: A copy of the PCS orders, and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you hear about this job? We know you saw this announcement on USAJOBS, but did you hear about it somewhere else first?

Please tell us where you first heard about this job.
National Call to Maritime Service/Fleet Week
Department of the Navy (DON) Agency website/internet
Email from the Department of the Navy
LinkedIn
CareerBuilder.com
Indeed.com
Monster.com
Facebook
X (Formerly known as Twitter)
USAJOBS website
Job Supervisor
A Navy/Marine Corps employee, not the position supervisor
Friend or Family Member, not a Navy/Marine Corps employee
Contract employee
College/University Career Placement Office
College Alumni
Employment Office
Newspaper Advertisement
Job Career Fair
American Association of People with Disabilities
National Association of Asian American Professionals
2024 Federal Interagency Military Spouse Career Expo


2.
Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316 (relating to the Executive Schedule)?
OR
Are you a current or former Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former non-career SES, Limited Term SES, or Limited Emergency SES in the Executive Branch?
OR
Are you a current or former political appointee in the Executive Branch?

The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. A recent or former political appointee is defined as someone who held a political appointment covered by OPM's policy within the previous 5-year period. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories above, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

For more information see https://www.chcoc.gov/content/political-appointees-and-career-civil-service-positions-4 and https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/oversight-activities/faqs/

If you answer Yes to this question, you must provide your current or past SF50 for the political appointment.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a Secret security clearance.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0899-02 Student Trainee (Engineering & Architecture).
 I will have successfully completed a high school or GED diploma at the end of the current semester and before my start of employment.
 I have not successfully completed a high school or General Education Diploma (GED) diploma.


2.
From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience in demonstrating your attention to detail.
 I have led a team project and received a commendation for monitoring the quality and details of the project.
 I have completed a personal or school related project, and asked clarifying questions to ensure I accurately applied the instructions.
 I have completed personal or school related forms by independently following the instructions and double checking the accuracy of information before submittal.
 I have completed personal or school related forms by independently following the instructions.
 None of the above.


3.
This position requires the ability to be attentive to detail. From the following responses, please select the statement that best reflects your level of attention to detail.
 I have requested an extension on a deadline to ensure an assignment or project reflected my very best quality.
 I have missed an assignment or project deadline because my focus was on quality of the assignment.
 I have sacrificed quality to meet an assignment or project deadline.
 I have sacrificed quality and missed a project deadline.
 None of the above.


4.
From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your behavior in demonstrating interpersonal skills.
 I am most likely to ask clarifying questions to better understand when people disagree with my ideas.
 I am most likely to actively listen to others when they disagree with my ideas.
 I am most likely to disagree with others to defend my ideas.
 I am most likely to agree with other ideas that are different than mine.
 None of the above.


5.
From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your behavior in demonstrating interpersonal skills.
 I seek feedback and constructive criticism from others because it helps me improve.
 I am most likely to accept constructive feedback gracefully and will often thank that person for taking the time to give it.
 I am most likely to get defensive when others give me constructive feedback.
 I am most likely to feel hurt as a result of negative feedback, and have a tendency to withdraw from that person.
 None of the above.


6.
This position requires the ability to self-manage. From the following responses, please select the statement that that most accurately reflects your experience in self-management.
 I have set goals and determined how I will evaluate my progress towards those goals. When I accomplish my goals, I like to celebrate reaching that milestone.
 I have set goals and compared my current performance as I worked towards those goals.
 I have set goals and have worked hard to achieve those goals.
 I have set goals, and hope to achieve them someday.
 None of the above.


7.
This position requires you to complete periods of intern work while completing your academic studies. From the following responses, please select the statement that most accurately reflects your experience in demonstrating self-management skills.
 I have received commendations or awards for my punctuality or attendance.
 I am consistently punctual and reliable when I need to be at a specific time and place.
 I am tardy or miss expected arrival times less than 10% of the time because I organize my time using a PIM (Personal Information Manager) such as a calendar or personal electronic device.
 I am tardy or miss expected arrival times more than 10% of the time.
 None of the above.


8.
Please select the response that best describes your grade point average (GPA).
 I have a cumulative GPA of between 3.5 and 4.0 as recorded on my transcripts.
 I have a cumulative GPA between 3.0 and 3.49 as recorded on my transcripts.
 I have a cumulative GPA of between 2.50 and 2.99 as recorded on my transcripts.
 I have a cumulative GPA of between 2.00 and 2.49 as recorded on my transcripts.
 My GPA does not reflect any of the above choices.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙