Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Citizenship and Immigration Services
Announcement Number
12998503-OCC-ST-26 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you wish to be considered as a current Federal employee?

Proof is required. You must submit the following documentation to support your claim:

Your SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement. It is recommended that you submit your most recent SF-50 that shows your position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and, full performance level.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Montgomery County, AL
 I. Fresno, CA
 J. Los Angeles, CA
 K. Sacramento, CA
 L. San Diego, CA
 M. San Francisco, CA
 N. Denver, CO
 O. Miami, FL
 P. Oakland Park, FL
 Q. Tampa, FL
 R. Atlanta, GA
 S. Idaho City, ID
 T. Chicago, IL
 U. Indianapolis, IN
 V. Des Moines, IA
 W. Wichita, KS
 X. New Orleans, LA
 Y. Boston, MA
 Z. Minneapolis, MN
 AA. Kansas City, MO
 AB. New York, NY
 AC. Durham, NC
 AD. Cincinnati, OH
 AE. Columbus, OH
 AF. Philadelphia, PA
 AG. Pittsburgh, PA
 B. Charleston, SC
 C. Memphis, TN
 D. Dallas, TX
 E. Houston, TX
 F. San Antonio, TX
 G. Norfolk, VA
 H. Seattle, WA


2.
Per 5 CFR 576.202, an employee who receives a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) and later accepts employment for compensation with the Government of the United States within 5 years of the date of the separation on which the VSIP is based, including work under a personal services contract or other direct contract, must repay the entire amount of the VSIP to the agency that paid it before the individual's first day of reemployment.

If you received a VSIP there is a requirement to pay the gross amount in full prior to returning to Federal service.

Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from the Federal Government within the last 5 years?
 Yes, I received a VSIP from the Federal Government within the last 5 years and I acknowledge and understand there is a requirement to pay the gross amount in full prior to returning to Federal service and proof of repayment will be required prior to the first day of my reemployment.
 No, I have not received a VSIP within the last 5 years.


3.
I acknowledge that this position is NOT remote and that if selected, I will be expected to report to the duty station listed within the announcement text.
By answering YES to this question, I am indicating that I understand this requirement.
By answering NO to this question, I am asking to be removed from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment, Requirements and Suitability
1.
There is a residency requirement for all applicants not currently employed by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. This residency requirement states that candidates must have, for three of the last five years immediately prior to applying for this position(s); (1) resided in the United States; OR (2) worked for the United States Government as an employee overseas in a Federal or Military capacity; OR (3) been a dependent of a U.S. Federal or Military employee serving overseas. Do you meet one of these requirements?
 Yes
 No
 The residency requirement does not apply to me because I am currently a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services employee.
 No, however I do fall under the EXCEPTION of stateside coverage. I understand that I must submit complete stateside coverage information required to make a suitability/security determination at a later time if deemed necessary.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a graduate of a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association and currently an active member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. Commonwealth, U.S. Territory, or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-15 Attorney - Which of the following statements best describes your experience?
 I am a current federal employee and possess one (1) year of professional legal experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level.
 I am not a federal employee and have three years of post-J.D. professional legal experience commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


3.
If you are a Federal employee, is your most recent performance rating equivalent to a "pass," "satisfactory," or better?
 Yes
 No
 I am a Federal employee but have not received a performance rating.
 Not applicable. I am not a Federal employee.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. It is your responsibility to provide the responses, information, and documentation regarding your work history for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability, and 4) that you have provided all of the information and documentation needed for us to determine your eligibility and qualifications for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙