Position Title
Health and Wellness Coach
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-13045157-26-SSH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Monroeville, AL
 B. Tuskegee, AL


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
1.
Education and/or Experience. Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in behavioral or social science or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
OR
Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
OR
Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 Yes
 I meet the minimum qualifications identified in the Grandfathering Provision identified in the Qualifications section of the job announcement for this position.
 No


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


2.
Certification. Are you currently certified by the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC)?
 Yes
 No, but I otherwise meet the minimum qualifications for the GS7 grade level of this position and am or plan to begin actively pursuing certification by the NBHWC no later than the date of my placement into this position.
 No, but I meet the minimum qualifications identified in the Grandfathering Provision identified in the Qualifications section of the job announcement for this position.
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-07 Experience. None beyond the basic requirements. Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs).

(2) Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of health and wellness coaching processes and techniques.
(b) Ability to promote positive lifestyle choices.
(c) Ability to effectively communicate in writing through a variety of modalities.
(d) Ability to effectively communicate verbally/non-verbally.

Do you possess experience that demonstrates the following KSA requirements for the GS-7 grade level of this position listed below?
 Yes
 No


4.
Experience GS-9. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade, Candidates must be certified by the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as Health and Wellness Coaches at the full performance level. Health and Wellness Coaches use behavioral change theories (e.g., motivational interview and trans-theoretical model) and tools to assist individuals in the process of health coaching. They provide interventions that promote health and wellness and enhance well-being (i.e., what matters to the individual), improve health related outcomes, reduce likelihood of inpatient admission and improve 7 quality of life across the continuum of care in all settings etc.

Do you possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade?
 Yes
 No


5.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities GS-9. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of current research literature related to health and wellness, including behaviors that promote a healthy lifestyle and well-being.
(b) Skill in using health and wellness coaching techniques to promote positive behavior change using one-on-one, couple or group modalities.
(c) Skill in exercising effective interpersonal communication techniques to develop and maintain strong interpersonal relationships.
(d) Ability to assist the client in developing a comprehensive personalized health plan based on a patient's action-oriented goals.
(e) Ability to identify resources internal and external to the organization that are necessary for achieving patient overall health and well-being goals.
(f) Ability to use information technology (IT) equipment and various/emerging technologies to carry out work responsibilities.
(g) Ability to document patient information using appropriate systems.

Do you possess experience that demonstrates the following KSA requirements for the GS-9 grade level of this position listed below?
 Yes
 No


IMPORTANT: Transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙