Position Title
Juror Clerk
Agency
District of Columbia Courts
Announcement Number
SOD-26-1585234 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you now, or have you ever been, a Federal employee, a District of Columbia Government employee, or a District of Columbia Courts employee?Answer to this question is required
 A. No
 B. Yes - DC Courts
 C. Yes - DC Government
 D. Yes - Federal Government


2.
If you answered yes to the above question, please enter the agency or organization, division, and dates of service. If you responded no, type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters)


3.
If you responded yes to the question above, please indicate your current pay: If you responded no, please type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters.)


4.

Does the DC Courts employ any member of your family?

Family is defined as: father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

 Yes
 No


5.
If you responded yes to the above question, please provide the name, relationship, and division. If you responded no, type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters.)


6.

Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal annuity?

(Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.)

 Yes
 No


7.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable


8.
Are you eligible for employment in the United States (either a citizen of the United States, lawfully admitted for permanent residency, or authorized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to work in the U.S.)?
 Yes
 No


9.
Within the past 5 years, have you been fired, or have you quit a job after being notified that you would be fired?Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


10.
If you answered yes to being fired within the last 5 years, explain here. If you answered no, type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters.)


11.
I hereby authorize the release of my adult criminal record revealing any convictions and forfeitures, and any criminal cases currently pending before the courts. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


12.
May we contact your current employer for a reference?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Juror Clerk position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Your resume and documentation must reflect your responses.


1.
Do you have a minimum of a high school diploma or GED plus four (4) years of administrative or clerical experience in a court, legal or office environment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the applications you have used regularly.
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Excel
 C. Microsoft Outlook
 D. Microsoft Teams
 E. Adobe Acrobat
 F. Case Management System
 G. Jury Management System
 H. None of the Above


3.
What statement best describes your experience reviewing documents for accuracy?
 Developed procedures to improve accuracy
 Responsible for quality control and ensuring compliance with policies and procedures
 Regularly reviewed documents and corrected errors before final processing
 Reviewed documents for obvious errors
 None of the above.


4.
What best describes your experience supporting jury operations?
 No experience
 Familiar with jury processes through observation and training
 Assisted with juror check-in, recordkeeping, or scheduling
 Independently managed jury panels, juror attendance, qualifications, postponements, or courtroom assignments
 Served as the primary point of contact for jury administration or supervised jury operations


5.
What best describes your experience providing customer service to a diverse population?
 I have no experience.
 I have limited experience providing basic customer service.
 I have experience answering questions and resolving routine customer service concerns.
 I have extensive experience handling difficult situations, explaining policies and providing excellent customer service in person, by phone and electronically.
 I have served as a team lead or trainer responsible for customer service operations.


6.
Describe your experience preparing correspondence, reports, notices or official documents.
 None of the above
 Prepared routine correspondence
 Independently prepared complex reports, notices and official documents
 Reviewed and approved documents prepared by others


7.
Describe your experience communicating with customers and stakeholders.
 Limited experience
 Responded to routine inquiries
 Explained policies and procedures to customers in person and by phone
 Regularly communicated complex information to customers while resolving concerns professionally
 Delivered presentations and training to groups


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙