Position Title
Cook Supervisor (Executive Chef)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-27-13082187-DHA
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
MQ Only JW 219376 13082187 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Cook Supervisor (Executive Chef) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Cook Supervisor (Executive Chef), WS-7404-11, duties.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex food preparation supervision, food preparation techniques, and work assignment distribution. I am skilled in a complex range of food preparation techniques, supervising administration and technical food production operations in high-volume environments, redirecting resources with financial and manning restrictions. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of food preparation supervision, food preparation techniques, and work assignment distribution. I am skilled in supervising administrative and technical food production operations, redirecting resources to meet deadlines, and performing a full-range of food preparation techniques. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some tasks including food preparation supervision, food preparation techniques, and work assignment distribution. I can supervise administrative and technical food production operations, identify work assignments to meet deadlines, and perform most food preparation techniques. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common food preparation supervision, food preparation techniques, and work assignment distribution. I can supervise administrative and technical food production operations and perform basic food preparation techniques. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple food preparation supervision, food preparation techniques, and work assignment distribution or I have received training on food preparation administration and food preparation techniques.
 I do not have on-the-job training or the abilities described above
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
