Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Web Developer) Direct Hire
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
DH-26-59-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Information Technology Specialist (Web Developer) position located in in the Office of the Chief Information Officer at the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC). You will be evaluated on your responses to the questionnaire; then we will compare your responses against your resume and supporting documentation. If you rate yourself higher than is supported by your application materials, your responses may be adjusted and/or you may be excluded from consideration for this position. Please Note: Your resume MUST clearly identify the dates that support this experience (month/year); as well as the number of hours per week for each position.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Information Technology Specialist (Web Developer) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time experience equivalent to GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) to meet the specialized experience requirement. Specialized experience at this level includes: 1) Applying secure software development and testing practices throughout the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) in accordance with Agile software development methodologies to ensure the delivery of secure, reliable, and high-quality web applications. 2) Demonstrated experience with all phases of the SDLC, including the design, development, testing, documentation, implementation, and maintenance of public-facing websites utilizing a Content Management System (CMS) within a Linux-based operating system environment. 3) Following established policies, procedures, and governance processes to update, maintain, and publish website content while meeting established service level agreements (SLAs) for timeliness, accuracy, and quality of deliverables. 4) Using web analytics and monitoring tools, such as Google Analytics, to collect, analyze, and interpret website usage, performance, and user engagement metrics to support data-driven decision-making and continuous improvement of website functionality and user experience.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I do not meet the requirements as described above


1a.
Please identify the position on your resume in which you performed these responsibilities, including the corresponding job title and employment dates (month/year).


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Information Technology Specialist (Web Developer) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time experience equivalent to GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) to meet the specialized experience requirement. Specialized experience at this level includes: 1) Designing, implementing, and maintaining public-facing websites using the Drupal Content Management System (CMS), including performing system administration functions for Drupal and integrated third-party technologies. 2) Ability to design user-centered website front-end interfaces in accordance with industry best practices for usability and user experience while ensuring compliance with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act and applicable accessibility standards. 3) Supporting the integration, administration, and optimization of web technologies, including Drupal and third-party software, to enhance website performance, manage user access, and maintain secure operations through the timely application of software updates and remediation of security vulnerabilities.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related
 I do not meet the requirements as described above


2a.
Please identify the position on your resume in which you performed these responsibilities, including the corresponding job title and employment dates (month/year).


Your responses to the Announcement and Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙