Position Title
Engineering Equipment Operator Leader
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFU-26-12939668-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 17, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Condition of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Incumbent is required to possess and maintain a Class A CDL.  Do you currently possess a Class A CDL?  Provide proof in your application.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Equipment Operator Leader position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Engineering Equipment Operator Leader duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks performing all work involved in assisting and directing other employees engaged in engineering equipment operation and roads maintenance work. I am skilled in passing on instructions and maintain the pace of the projects at hand; Providing information to supervisor on status of progress of work, causes of delays and overall work operations and problems; Ensuring operational maintenance of roads, grounds, facilities, and targets that are used for field range training; Performing welding a in flat, vertical, horizontal, and overhead positions; Troubleshoot, adjust, services, and repair vehicles and gasoline powered generators, dismantle motors using power tools, and examine the part for defects. I am skilled to operate one or more types of heavy and light equipment to backfill or grade earth, and construct new roads in rough terrain areas; Checking work while in progress and when finished to ensure that the instructions on work sequence, procedures, methods, and deadlines have been met and report status of and progress of work; receiving complaints, recommendations for improvements to methods used in accomplishing the work, performing work in accordance with drawings, sketches, blue prints, specifications, engineer plans, and own knowledge of constructions needed repairs. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties including assisting and directing other employees engaged in engineering equipment operation and roads maintenance work. I am skilled in passing on instructions and maintain the pace of the projects at hand; Providing information to supervisor on status of progress of work, causes of delays and overall work operations and problems; Ensuring operational maintenance of roads, grounds, facilities, and targets that are used for field range training; Performing welding a in flat, vertical, horizontal, and overhead positions; Troubleshoot, adjust, service, and repair vehicles and gasoline powered generators, dismantle motors using power tools, and examine the part for defects. I am skilled to operate one or more types of heavy and light equipment to backfill or grade earth, and construct new roads in rough terrain areas; Checking work while in progress and when finished to ensure that the instructions on work sequence, procedures, methods, and deadlines have been met and report status of and progress of work, performing work in accordance with drawings, sketches, blue prints, specifications, engineer plans, and own knowledge of constructions needed repairs. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties as appropriate. I can safely assist and direct other employees engaged in engineering equipment operation and roads maintenance work; Pass on instructions and maintain the pace of the projects at hand; Provide information to supervisor on status of progress of work, causes of delays and overall work operations and problems. I have general experience of performing work in accordance with drawings, sketches, blue prints, specifications, engineer plans, and own knowledge of constructions needed repairs. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties including work assignments of one or two other employees in addition to my own work; however, I am not able to regularly perform in the capacity of an Engineering Equipment Operator Leader or I have received training to perform simple duties including work assignments of one or two other employees in addition to my own work.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙