Position Title
Electroplater
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12847801-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 11, 2025 to Dec 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a requirement to lift objects weighing 20 lbs, and occasionally weighing up to 40 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electroplater position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electroplater duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks which include creating and modifying computer programs for automated production lines and to perform complex calculations for chemical adjustments in plating solutions; setting and adjusting voltage, amperage, and timing parameters for precise plating applications; and performing preventive maintenance and troubleshooting equipment to ensure compliance with safety and operational standards. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range duties which include utilizing electrolytic and chemical processes to perform plating, coating, and surface treatment of metals and metal alloys; preparing items for plating by grinding, buffing, and polishing to achieve a smooth finish; designing various types of plating racks, jigs, and fixtures to accommodate intricately shaped parts as required; and setup electroplating tanks, mixing solutions and monitoring key parameters with precision. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties which include determining appropriate measuring instruments based on the type of plating and required precision; performing basic cleaning operations such as degreasing and light sanding to prepare metal surfaces for plating; and assisting with the setup of electroplating tanks, mixing solutions and monitoring basic parameters such as voltage and amperage. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple visual inspections of plated items to determine obvious defects such as uneven coating or surface imperfections, or I have received training on how to spot these visual imperfections.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙