Position Title
Supervisory Pharmacist (Medication Safety & Regulatory Compliance)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-CC-DH-26-12908482 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


3.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


4.
HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or Priority Reemployment List (PRL) Eligible

Are you a former Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) employee eligible for priority reemployment consideration under the HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) due to Reduction in Force (RIF) or due to fully recovering from a compensable work-related injury after more than one year?
You may be eligible for priority consideration if you are actively registered on the HHS Reemployment Priority List (RPL) or HHS Priority Reemployment List (PRL) for the same local commuting area, occupational job series, and grade level(s) as this vacancy announcement.

If you meet these criteria, the following supporting documentation must be submitted to support your claim:
copy of your last performance rating of record (if separated due to RIF);
SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that shows the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were separated. If you did not reach your full performance level or promotion potential, you should also submit an additional SF-50 that documents that grade level. To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information; and,
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease (if eligible due to recovery from compensable work-related injury).
Based on the above, are you eligible for RPL/PRL? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Pharmacist (Medication Safety & Regulatory Compliance) GS-0660-14, position at our agency. For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience, training, or ability. For the purposes of this assessment, an expert is a person, through education and experience, who has a comprehensive and authoritative knowledge of or skill in a particular area.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum education requirements for the Pharmacist position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I have A doctoral degree in Pharmacy that is recognized by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education (ACPE) or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.
 I believe that I am qualified because I have at least a bachelor's degree in Pharmacy and a substantial record of experience, and achievement that demonstrates competence in the pharmacy field. Note: Individuals who qualify based upon this option will be subject to a comprehensive evaluation of both their education and experience prior to the final appointment.
 My education does not match the choices above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your professional pharmacist license status as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I have an active, current license as a pharmacist in a State, District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.
 My licensure status does not match the choice above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the specialized experience for the GS-0660-14, Supervisory Pharmacist (Medication Safety & Regulatory Compliance) position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement. Please respond accurately even if you wish to not be considered for this position. You will only be referred for the positions you select and rated as eligible upon additional HR review.

 I qualify for this position at the GS-14 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service obtained in the public sector, performing the following types of review or program tasks: Ability to assess and ensure the safety of pharmaceutical products manufactured or procured and services provided in a hospital pharmacy or pharmaceutical-related program or activity; Demonstrate a broad understanding of health care systems and processes to facilitate accurate interpretation of clinical events; possess experience with all aspects of the medication-use system, including procurement, prescribing, transcribing, preparation, distribution, administration, documentation, and monitoring; Ability to interpret regulatory guidelines, policies and standards including USP <795>, USP <797>, USP <800>, and/or cGMP.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


4.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application.

I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment.

I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information.

Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?

 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙