Position Title
CYP CUSTODIAN
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12839804 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
This position requires a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education. You must provide documentation in order to be considered. Do you have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in cleaning and sanitation.
 Able to lift, push, pull, and carry mops, rakes, buckets, bags, power tools, and similar items to clean indoor and outdoor areas, objects, and surfaces.
 Able to sweep, scrub, wipe, and otherwise clean with tools such as brooms, dusters, cloths, and basic cleaning solutions.
 Able to stock custodial supplies such as chemicals, cleaning agents, cleaning tools, tissues, or paper towels.
 Able to locate spills, trash, or debris.
 Limited or none.


3.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in basic maintenance and equipment usage.
 Able to operate, clean, and maintain powered equipment such as vacuums and floor polishers and identify needed repairs.
 Able to use equipment such as ladders and power drills for basic maintenance tasks such as replacing blinds or changing light bulbs.
 Able to identify equipment, tools, and parts needed for maintenance tasks.
 Able to locate broken items or unwanted obstructions.
 Limited or none.


4.
Select the response that best describes your experience in child & youth custodial service.
 12 or more months working in custodial service in a child & youth-related setting (e.g., daycare, school, family entertainment center, etc.).
 1 to 11 months working in custodial service in a child & youth-related setting (e.g., daycare, school, family entertainment center, etc.).
 Experienced with custodial service in other settings or interested in custodial service work.
 Able to perform custodial service tasks when necessary or under close supervision.
 No experience or interest in food service.


5.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙