Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARX-13037352-26-MK Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
In accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Staffing: Part I, Chapter 3, Section A, pre-employment reference checks are an assessment method used in the hiring and selection process to verify the information provided by an internal or external candidate, gain additional knowledge regarding a candidate's abilities, and assist a hiring official with making a final selection for a position.

In the textbox below, please provide the following for at least 3 professional references. One of these references must be a current or previous supervisor within the previous three years. Please also indicate in the textbox below if you prefer to be contacted before your current or previous supervisor is contacted.
Name
Affiliation (i.e. supervisor, co-worker, professor, etc.)
Dates of affiliation
Position title
Organization
Telephone number
Email address
By providing this information and submitting your application, you are consenting to Human Resources Staff and/or Hiring Managers contacting your references.

If a supervisory reference is not available, candidates may provide an alternate or additional reference from a professional source, such as a co-worker, professor, or other individual who has directly observed your work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, etc.

If a candidate does not grant permission to conduct reference checks with current/former supervisors or a hiring official is unable to reach at least one supervisory reference, and the candidate is unable to provide any alternative references, a hiring official must document and communicate the lack of acceptable references to the HR staff. A hiring official must consider the lack of acceptable references as a factor during the selection process if they were unable to verify work products, performance, aptitude, conduct, and so forth. A hiring official must cease selection consideration of that candidate.

Hiring Officials may request alternate/additional references.


Assessment 1
Education and Experience Requirements: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If using education to qualify, you MUST submit an official or unofficial transcript. Note: Experience/Education MUST be substantiated in your resume or transcripts. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


Time-in-Grade Restriction: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-7 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-9 grade level. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, this does not apply to you.


1.
Specialized Experience for GS-9: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade in the GS-07 normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to experience that demonstrates application of budget administration techniques, procedures, and guidelines, including:
Assisting in the development, formulation, or execution of program budget plans.
Gathering, extracting, and consolidating financial data from databases and reports for use in recurring budget estimates or analysis.
Reconciling and verifying accuracy of budgetary data and records.
Preparing and reviewing budgetary reports, spreadsheets, and justifications under guidance.
Provide support in monitoring funds, tracking obligations and expenditures, and recording transactions in automated financial systems.
Using standard PC-based applications (Excel, Word, Access) to track or report budget data.
Interpreting basic financial guidance, regulations, or policies.
OR
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have: Successfully a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related
OR
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level you must meet the following: Combination of specialized experience and successfully completed graduate level education (more than the first year or 18 semester hours) to meet total experience requirements.



 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07)
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I possess 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above that equates to one year of experience. My percentage of the required education plus my percentage of the required experience equal one hundred percent.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education described above.


Time-in-Grade Restriction: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-9 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, this does not apply to you.


2.
Specialized Experience for GS-11: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade in the GS-07 normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to Experience that demonstrates comprehensive analysis, formulation, execution, and oversight of complex budgets, including:
Independently developing, justifying, and defending budget estimates and requests for a major program or organization.
Performing in-depth budget analysis and reviewing budget submissions for accuracy, compliance with policies, and adequacy to meet program objectives.
Analyzing trends in financial obligations and expenditures to develop multi-year budget projects and recommendations.
Coordinating with program managers and financial staff to resolve complex budgetary problems, negotiate solutions, and support research objectives.
Leading or conducting training for staff and advising senior leadership on budget execution, status, or issues.
OR
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M., if related
OR
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level you must meet the following combination of specialized experience and successfully completed graduate level education (more than two years or 36 semester hours) to meet total experience requirements.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) or pay band in the federal service or equivalent experience to include and not limited to: Comprehensive and detailed knowledge and understanding of tracking medical care and research appropriated funds; Expert on developing routine budgetary plans, projects and reports; Formulate and execute budget plans and communicate with personnel at all levels to resolve and reconcile budget problems (i.e. Imbalances, budget transfers, cost-transfers); Provide and review data for budget programs; Conduct analyses to develop required date and information for reporting purposes; Understanding guidelines of OMB and congressional laws, regulations, policies, and directives, Federal policies, management and organizational techniques.
 I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of experience and education as described above that equates to one year of experience. My percentage of the required education plus my percentage of the required experience equal one hundred percent.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙