Position Title
Library Technician NF-2
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
NUS-26-022 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Fund Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the Library Technician position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position? 
 I have a minimum of one year of clerical /office experience
 I have two years of education above high-school level
 I have a combination of experience and education
 I have none of the above


2.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience using library technology such as library catalogs and electronic resources.
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have no experience in using library technology


3.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience supporting events and programs, to include public speaking.
 I have more than 3 years of experience as described above
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience as described above
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above
 I have no experience as described above


4.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience performing customer service duties.
 I have more than 3 years of experience performing these tasks
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience performing these tasks
 I have less than 1 year of experience performing these tasks
 I have no experience in performing these tasks


5.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience in performing clerical duties.
 I have more than 3 years of experience performing these tasks
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience performing these tasks
 I have less than 1 year of experience performing these tasks
 I have no experience in performing these tasks


6.
Please select the statement that best describes your experience in using MS Office applications such as Word and Excel.
 I have more than 3 years of experience performing these tasks
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience performing these tasks
 I have less than 1 year of experience performing these tasks
 I have no experience in using these applications


7.
Please select the statement that best describes your education.
 I have a 4-year degree or higher
 I have a 2-year degree
 I have a high school diploma
 I do not have a high school diploma


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙