Position Title
Cook
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-12999401-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Cook position with the Defense Health Agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Cook duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Cook tasks. I am skilled in cooking an entire meal including the different preparation methods for various food items, the necessary time for cooking different items, and how to schedule and coordinate their preparation to produce a properly cooked meal on time. I am skilled in roasting, broiling, baking, frying, boiling, steaming and stewing a variety of foods. I am skilled in evaluating a variety of raw and cooked food items to decide if they are fresh and whether cooked foods are done by their appearance, consistency, texture and temperature. I have a working knowledge of special and modified diets, and of principles of food spoilage, food borne illness, and food safety. I am skilled in operating and cleaning specialized equipment such as a cook tank, agitating kettle, pump fill station, and vacuum packer. I am skilled in ordering, issuing, and storing food items in accordance with inventory and sanitation requirements and operating, breaking down, and cleaning the standard food service equipment such as the food processor, slicing machine, rotary or convection oven, and a deep fat fryer. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of cooking. I am skilled in cooking an entire meal including the different preparation methods for various food items, the necessary time for cooking different items, and how to schedule and coordinate their preparation to produce a properly cooked meal on time. I am skilled in roasting, broiling, baking, frying, boiling, steaming and stewing a variety of foods. I am skilled in evaluating a variety of raw and cooked food items to decide if they are fresh and whether cooked foods are done by their appearance, consistency, texture and temperature. I have a working knowledge of principles of food spoilage, food borne illness, and food safety. I am skilled in operating, breaking down, and cleaning the standard food service equipment such as the food processor, slicing machine, rotary or convection oven, and a deep fat fryer. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Cook tasks. I can cook an entire meal and coordinate its preparation to produce a properly cooked meal on time. I can roast, broil, bake, fry, boil, steam and stew a variety of foods. I can determine whether cooked foods are done by their appearance, consistency, texture and temperature. I have a working knowledge of principles of food spoilage, food borne illness, and food safety. I can operate standard food service equipment such as a food processor, slicing machine, rotary or convection oven, or a deep fat fryer. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Cook duties, or I have received training in cooking main dishes, sides, or deserts.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙