Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12945970-26-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) vacancy with the Washington DC Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G11, requires that applicants meet the following basic requirements.


Basic Requirements:

To qualify for appointment as an RRT, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship

Citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit  qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, of this part. See 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a) for more information.

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education

Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

Do you have the required education as stated above?


NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure

Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.


Do you meet the licensure required as stated above?

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration
 Yes
 No


4.
Credential

Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

(1) Exception. RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below.

(a) VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07 level.

(b) RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.

(c) RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.

(d) Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

(e) Failure to Obtain Credential.  In all cases, RTs must actively pursue meeting national  prerequisites for the RRT credential from the first day of their appointment. Failure to become  credentialed within one year from date of appointment will result in removal from the GS-0601 RT  series and may result in termination of employment. The Human Resources (HR) Office staff will  provide RTs, in writing, the requirement to 1) obtain their RRT credential; 2) the date by which the  RRT credential must be acquired; and 3) the consequences for not becoming RRT credentialed by  the deadline. The HR Office staff must provide the written notice to selectees prior to entrance on duty date and maintain a copy in the electronic Official Personnel Folder.

(2) Loss of Licensure, Certification or Credentials.  An employee in this occupation, who fails to maintain the required certifications, RRT credential or license must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in the termination of employment. Once credentialed, licensed or certified, RTs/RRTs must maintain a full, valid and unrestricted license, credential and certification to practice respiratory care.

Do you have a valid current, unrestricted credential as stated above?

 Yes
 No


Physical Standards. Work is primarily performed in environmentally controlled inpatient and outpatient care areas. Walking and standing for extended periods required. Must be able to physically access all areas of service. Pushing and pulling equipment up to seventy pounds, moving and lifting supplies, lifting, bending, stooping, and exposure to body fluid is involved. This position has been evaluated as a Level 1 in accordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definition of occupational exposure to blood borne pathogens. Level 1 positions in this category require the performance of tasks that are exposed to blood and potentially infectious body fluids.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
English Language Proficiency

RTs/RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS

All individuals assigned to this occupation must meet all the basic qualification requirements above and all basic qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment. All positions must be designated in one of the approved title or parenthetical title, as described below and duties must meet the definition of the assignment:

a. Respiratory Therapist. Respiratory Therapist GS-05 positions designated in this qualification standard are developmental positions under the 0601 series and do not have the same requirements as Respiratory Therapists in the 0651 series. The Respiratory Therapist title in this standard may only be used at the GS-05 level while the incumbent is working towards obtaining the RRT registration.

b. Registered Respiratory Therapist. Working titles, such as program coordinator, assistant chief, national program manager, etc., may be used at the organizational level to designate the work of the position.

c. Registered Respiratory Therapist (Pulmonary)

d. Registered Respiratory Therapist (Polysomnography)

e. Registered Respiratory Therapist (Pulmonary/Polysomnography)

f. Lead Registered Respiratory Therapist

g. Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist


GRADE DETERMINATIONS

In addition to the basic requirements for employment above, all individuals referred and assigned to this occupation must meet all the qualification requirements and KSAs defined in the specific assignment as follows:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11.

(a) Experience, Licensure and Credential.

Candidates must have:
i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.

ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Do you meet the Experience, Licensure and Credential requirements as stated above?
 Yes
 No


7.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.

In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:

i. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.

ii. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.

iii. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.

Does your resume show you have knowledge, skills and abilities listed above?


(c) Assignments. This assignment is the full performance level. RRTs at this grade level work independently providing respiratory care in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. The specific assignments are dependent on facility structure and complexity levels. They use data and patient assessment to establish appropriate plan of care and determine if outcomes are being met. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient using appropriate mechanical means. RRTs determine and implement complex respiratory care such as protocols, respiratory modalities, bronchoscopy, medications or supplemental oxygen and intubation. They monitor critical systems. They use advanced modes of ventilation and outpatient services, such as home ventilators and COPD case management. RRTs suggest alternate modes of treatment where indicated based on assessment and analysis of patient response to treatment. RRTs at this grade level may perform invasive procedures such as arterial line placement. They serve as a preceptor to lower graded staff. They may lead projects developing new 10 policies, procedures or protocols.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙