Position Title
IT Specialist (Artificial Intelligence) DIRECT HIRE
Agency
U.S. International Trade Commission
Announcement Number
DH-26-041-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy

• your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and

• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
A pre-employment drug screening may be required. Are you willing to undergo a drug screen?
 Yes
 No


10.
This position requires the incumbent to submit a Financial Disclosure Statement. Are you willing to comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the IT Specialist (Artificial Intelligence) position located in in the Office of the Chief Information Officer at the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC). You will be evaluated on your responses to the questionnaire; then we will compare your responses against your resume and supporting documentation. If you rate yourself higher than is supported by your application materials, your responses may be adjusted and/or you may be excluded from consideration for this position. Please Note: Your resume MUST clearly identify the dates that support this experience (month/year); as well as the number of hours per week for each position.


To qualify for the IT Specialist (INFOSEC) position, applicants must have at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) to meet the specialized experience requirements.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an IT Specialist (INFOSEC) GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time experience equivalent to GS-13 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) to meet the specialized experience requirements. 1.) Leading the development and execution of enterprise-wide AI strategy and governance, serving as the agency’s primary technical authority on artificial intelligence to independently advise executives on AI capabilities, risks, and compliance requirements in order to guide secure, mission-aligned adoption. 2.) Managing the implementation, customization, and optimization of enterprise AI tools and platforms, integrating Microsoft 365, cloud services, and secure APIs at scale to ensure interoperability, data protection, and adherence to NIST, FedRAMP, privacy, and agency-specific governance. 3.) Conducting complex technical evaluations and security assessments of AI services, independently identifying vulnerabilities, addressing security findings, and applying Zero Trust and federal cybersecurity principles to strengthen the agency’s overall security posture. AND 4.) Developing and lead agency-wide AI training, documentation, and knowledge-transfer programs, creating SOPs, user guidance, and tailored curricula to enhance workforce readiness and improve mission delivery through AI-enabled workflows.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


Your responses to the Announcement and Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I certify, that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in any part of this application, or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001). In addition, my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙