Position Title
SUPERVISORY SUPPLY TECHNICIAN
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MA-12830941-T5-26-104-003 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 6, 2025 to Friday, November 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current on-board T5 National Guard Employee of the Logistics Readiness Squadron with the 104th Fighter Wing?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to all questions. For each, choose the response that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application.


1.
I have general experience, education, or training in a variety of operations or situations concerned with substance or content of supply actions, requiring ability to decide course of action to take, considering the circumstances or conditions encountered. Knowledge of basic or commonly applied rules, procedures, or operations such as, filling out, posting, filing, controlling, or coding documents and/or transactions. Experience using computer and automation systems.

master's or equivalent graduate degree

OR

2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree

OR

LL.B. or J.D., if related
 Yes. I have general experience, education or training performing most of the above duties.
 No. I do not have gemeral experience, education or training, performing most of the above duties.


2.
I have at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Knowledge of governing supply regulations, policies, procedures, and instructions applicable to the specific assignment. Experience conducting searches for required information; reconstruct records for supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for activities involving specialized or unique supplies, equipment, and parts. Experience performing various aspects of supply specialist work based on practical knowledge of standard procedures, where assignments include individual case problems related to segments in one or more major areas of supply management. Experience which required person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. Consistent with the grade level determining duties in the position description, higher grade level specialized experience may include experience controlling supply stocks and accounting for equipment, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Completing complex supply transactions; and/or providing supply operations support. Experience coordinating with other organizations on complex and controversial supply issues. Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc. Knowledge on the entire inventory management supply system. Experience providing advice and guidance on supply regulations to upper levels of management regarding supply functions.

 Yes. I have specialized experience performing most of the above duties.
 No. I do not have specialized experience performing most of the above duties.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Open to change and new information; adapts behavior or work methods in response to new information, changing conditions, or unexpected obstacles; effectively deals with ambiguity.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


4.
Holds self and others accountable for measurable high-quality, timely, and cost-effective results. Determines objectives, sets priorities, and delegates work. Accepts responsibility for mistakes. Complies with established control systems and rules.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


5.
Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


6.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙