Position Title
Lock and Dam Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-13013566-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Florence, AL
 B. Grant, AL
 C. Massac County, IL
 D. Perry County, IN
 E. Gallatin County, KY
 F. Louisville, KY
 G. Sault Ste. Marie, MI
 H. East Millsboro, PA
 I. Glenwillard, PA
 J. Monaca, PA
 K. New Kensington, PA
 L. Pittsburgh, PA
 M. Jasper, TN
 N. Lenoir City, TN


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
8


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lock and Dam Operator position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Lock and Dam Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have ability to perform the most difficult and complex lock operating duties assisting in lock operating by handling lines from vessels or by operating controls. I am skilled in performing complex maintenance work on manual or mechanical lock operating equipment such as hydraulic pumps or electric motors, marine equipment, hydraulic equipment, or heavy equipment. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have ability to perform lock operating duties assisting in lock operating by handling lines from vessels or by operating controls as specifically directed by higher-graded personnel. I am skilled in performing routine maintenance work on manual or mechanical lock operating equipment such as hydraulic pumps or electric motors. I am skilled in performing routine maintenance work on I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have ability to perform the full range of duties associated with associated with a deckhand, launch operator or similar worker on a river or other waterway. I am skilled in performing routine maintenance work on marine equipment, hydraulic equipment, or heavy equipment. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have ability to perform common maintenance or repair tasks utilizing mechanical or electrical equipment. I can operate simple electrical or mechanical equipment such as lawn mowers, hedge clippers, electric drills, power wrenches, or hydraulic lifts. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I can use basic hand tools such as hammer or screwdriver and can perform simple maintenance associated with these tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙