Position Title
Data Engineer
Agency
Consumer Product Safety Commission
Announcement Number
2000EX-26-20261783126 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the answer that best describes your educational background.
 I have a bachelor's or higher degree in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. The degree must be in a major field of study (at least at the baccalaureate level) that is appropriate for the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that include courses equivalent to a major field of study (30 semester hours) as stated in item 1 above, plus additional education or appropriate experience.
 I do not possess the education as described above.


2.
GS-11: Choose the answer that best describes your experience:
 I possess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the Federal Government. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Assisting with maintaining structured datasets and analytical databases; 2) supporting data ingestion and optimizing data ingestion pipelines to enhance the performance of data queries, including improving throughput, reducing latency, and implementing best practices for efficient data processing and retrieval; 3) implementing data workflows in coordination with technical staff; and 4) assisting in the design, development, and deployment of data engineering solutions within cloud-based environments such as Azure or AWS, including the use of native cloud services for data storage, processing, orchestration, and integration.
 I possess 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree OR PhD or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I possess a combination of graduate level education beyond the first 2 years of progressive graduate study and appropriate experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


3.
GS-12: Choose the answer that best describes your experience:
 I possess at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal Government. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Developing, organizing, and maintaining structured data sets and analytical databases; 2) performing data ingestion, cleansing, and documentation processes to ensure accuracy and consistency; 3) optimizing data ingestion pipelines and enhancing the performance of data queries, including improving throughput, reducing latency, and implementing best practices for efficient data processing and retrieval; 4) contributing to the implementation of database-driven workflows and collaborating with technical staff to improve data quality and accessibility; and 5) designing, developing, and deploying data engineering solutions within cloud-based environments such as Azure or AWS, including the use of native cloud services for data storage, processing, orchestration, and integration.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙