Position Title
CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-13023687-AF-26-363-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION
1.
Are you a current on-board Title 5 Federal Employee or Title 32 Technicians within the Ohio National Guard in tenure 0, 1, 2, or 3? (SF-50 Required)
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess the experience in positions supporting competencies in business, finance, risk management, project management, or supply chain management? The experience must include competencies such as skill in collecting and analyzing data and the ability to communicate clearly and effectively and other professional competencies in procurement administration or purchase card management.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one year of contracting experience at the GS-11 level that has demonstrated the following: (1) Performing acquisition planning including market research and knowledge of a wide variety of contracting methods that satisfy mission needs and meet customer requirements, (2) Advising Contracting Officer Representatives and advising customers on procurement preparation and development of contractually acceptable specifications, work statements, and quality assurance criteria, (3) Reviewing procurement requests to assure clarity, adequacy, and completeness, and (4) Reviewing contract terms and technical specifications to identify any special requirements.

AND

Posses the DAWIA Level I - Professional certification.
 Yes
 No


3.
Analyzes difficult/controversial contracting issues, determines, recommends and/or implements course of action which may depart from previous approaches for long-term contract performance or short-term contracts with extremely stringent time frames. Provides business advice and assistance to technical personnel involved in the development of the performance work statement/statement of work/statement of objectives or data requirements


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.
 


4.
Prepares correspondence, reports, memoranda or other documents and briefings (scheduled or ad hoc) that support contractual actions or recommendations. Participates in or oversees special projects and initiatives and performs special assignments. Identifies the need for and initiates special milestones and goals. Researches and recommends appropriate action or interpretation of issues.


4a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.
 


5.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙