Position Title
Review Appraiser
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12952703-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees Applying on Time-Limited Assignments
    
This job opportunity announcement is open to current, permanent Army employees that would occupy the position under a time-limited promotion, reassignment or change to lower grade not to exceed (NTE). You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.
    
•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").
    
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.
    
Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.
    
Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee Applying on Time-Limited Assignments?
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mobile, AL
 AB. Anchorage, AK
 AD. Phoenix, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Los Angeles, CA
 AG. Sacramento, CA
 AH. San Francisco, CA
 AI. Denver, CO
 AJ. Washington, DC
 AK. Jacksonville, FL
 AL. Miami, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Savannah, GA
 AO. Chicago, IL
 AP. Rock Island, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Louisville, KY
 AS. New Orleans, LA
 AT. Baltimore, MD
 AU. Boston, MA
 AV. Concord, MA
 AW. Detroit, MI
 AX. Minneapolis, MN
 AY. Saint Paul, MN
 AZ. Vicksburg, MS
 BA. Kansas City, MO
 B. Saint Louis, MO
 C. Omaha, NE
 D. Albuquerque, NM
 E. Buffalo, NY
 F. Fort Hamilton, NY
 G. New York, NY
 H. Wilmington, NC
 I. Cincinnati, OH
 J. Oklahoma City, OK
 K. Tulsa, OK
 L. Portland, OR
 M. Philadelphia, PA
 N. Pittsburgh, PA
 O. Charleston, SC
 P. Memphis, TN
 Q. Nashville, TN
 R. Austin, TX
 S. Dallas, TX
 T. Fort Worth, TX
 U. Galveston, TX
 V. Draper, UT
 W. Salt Lake City, UT
 X. Norfolk, VA
 Y. Winchester County, VA
 Z. Seattle, WA
 AA. Walla Walla County, WA
 AC. Huntington, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Review Appraiser at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Analyzing data on properties concerning planning, zoning, utilities, taxes, or lease fees for appraisals; AND 2) Preparing narrative appraisal reports which include supportive data or technical analysis; AND 3) Reviewing properties by the income, cost, or comparison methods for appraisals.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Review Appraiser at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Preparing complex and varied appraisals of multiple property types, such as real property in rural, urban, or highly competitive metropolitan areas as a basis for acquisition in fee or lease and disposals; AND 2) Preparing narrative appraisal reports which include supportive data and technical analysis as a result of field and record examination.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙