Position Title
HEALTH TECHNICIAN (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12993057-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


1.
Experience and Education:
Select the response below to indicate how you meet the basic requirement for the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) occupation.

To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills and abilities associated with current health technician/assistant or health technician (optometry)/assistant practice. Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment as a health technician/assistant or health technician (Ophthalmology)/assistant in the health care field. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to health technician/assistant or health technician (Ophthalmology)/assistant experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs. Applicants with foreign education must submit a copy of this documentation.

Please ensure you fully detail the experience in your resume. If using education to meet any part of the qualification requirements, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Experience. I have one year of experience as a health technician or assistant in the health care field that demonstrates your ability to perform the work or by demonstrating a basic understanding of the work in the health care field.
 Education. I have successfully completed two academic years of education above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours related to health technician/assistant or health technician (optometry)/assistant or associate degree, or completion of an independent study course in a optometry related technician or assistant field.
 Experience/Education Combination. I have a combination of experience and education to meet the basic requirement. Examples are: (a) six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge of optometry assistant theory and practices and general understanding of the health technician/assistant duties and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health technician/assistant or health technician (optometry)/assistant related courses; (b) Successful completion of a course for health care technicians or assistants, hospital corpsmen, medical services specialists, or hospital training in a program given by the US Armed Forces, the US Maritime Service, or the US Public Health Service, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed as a permanent VHA Health Technician (Optometry) on the effective date of the qualification standard (April 9, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 I do not meet either of the requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-8 Grade Level Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the occupation, applicants must also meet the grade level requirements.

Experience. Applicants must have one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-7) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the position to be filled.

At the GS-7 level, technicians perform duties such as measuring and recording visual acuity (with use of pinhole testing as indicated), obtaining accurate potential acuity meter, laser interferometry, contrast sensitivity or other specialized visual acuity measurements. The technicians also evaluate pupillary light responses and measure pupil size, determine the presence or absence of fusion and perform stereoacuity measurements. The health technicians (optometry) perform Amsler grid testing, administer eye drops under the supervision of an eye care provider (optometrist or ophthalmologist), perform basic tonometry (e.g., non-contact, Goldmann, Tono-Pen) and estimate the anterior chamber depth with a penlight or slit lamp biomicroscope. The technicians are skilled in properly reading a basic spectacle prescription using an automated or manual lensometer, obtaining accurate autorefractometry and keratometry measurements, performing confrontation and standard automated visual field testing and administering and scoring basic color vision tests (e.g., pseudoischromatic plates, Farnsworth D-15). The technicians are also adept at measuring and recording corneal thickness by pachymetry as well as performance of advanced corneal measurements, exophthalmometry, tear testing and ocular imaging (e.g., stereo fundus, basic slit lamp biomicroscopy, intraocular lens master measurements, ocular ultrasonography, posterior segment optical coherence tomography, fundus autofluorescence and/or ocular angiography).

Also, at the GS-7 level, technicians meet the following demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). (a)Ability to determine preliminary objective estimate and/or refinement of the optical status of the eye, not to include the patient's final subjective refraction. (b)Ability to triage and manage eyeglasses issues (e.g., measurement of vertex distance, base curve, prism correction, center thickness, slab off, Fresnel prism, decentration, etc.). (c)Ability to perform accurate assessment of accommodation, near point of convergence and ocular alignment (far and near). (d)Ability to assist the eye care provider (optometrist or ophthalmologist) with ophthalmic procedures. (e)Ability to assist with obtaining accurate ocular cultures and smears. (f)Knowledge and ability to provide advanced patient education for eye health and/or vision conditions

In addition to meeting the experience or educational requirements for this grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following KSAs: (a)Ability to determine preliminary objective estimate and/or refinement of the optical status of the eye, not to include the patient's final subjective refraction. (b)Ability to triage and manage eyeglasses issues (e.g., measurement of vertex distance, base curve, prism correction, center thickness, slab off, Fresnel prism, decentration, etc.). (c)Ability to perform accurate assessment of accommodation, near point of convergence and ocular alignment (far and near). (d)Ability to assist the eye care provider (optometrist or ophthalmologist) with ophthalmic procedures. (e)Ability to assist with obtaining accurate ocular cultures and smears. (f)Knowledge and ability to provide advanced patient education for eye health and/or vision conditions

Do you meet ALL of these requirements? You must ensure this is fully detailed in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes, I meet these requirements.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed as a permanent VHA Health Technician (Optometry), GS-8, on the effective date of the qualification standard (April 9, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 No, I do not meet these requirements.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder: If using education to meet any part of the qualification requirements, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙