Position Title
SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12966756-AR-26-079 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E5 - E9 or WO1 - CW4?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E5 - E9 or WO1 - CW4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specified survey work to identify and evaluate hazardous and nonhazardous work and conditions. Applied conventional survey techniques to complete relatively uncomplicated evaluations. Made recommendations concerning corrective procedures where the potential for injury or property damage exists or current procedures do not achieve the desired results or modify/cancel the corrective procedures are no longer appropriate for situations encountered.
 Yes
 No


2.

GS-11: Do you possess at least 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level experience, education, or training performing periodic/unscheduled inspections of base facilities, warehouses, and equipment maintenance operations and evaluated compliance with applicable regulations and hazard system. Recommended measures and methods to correct safety and occupational health deficiencies. Participated in planning for testing of munitions, and assured integration of explosive safety criteria in testing procedures. Reviewed test implementation directives for inclusion of appropriate safety criteria. Prepared supplements to regulations and manuals for aircraft weapons safety and developed local regulations defining applicable mishap prevention procedures

 Yes
 No


3.

Drawing from your experience in managing a comprehensive safety program, describe a time you were tasked with implementing a significant update to a Safety and Occupational Health Management System (SOHMS). How did you coordinate with senior personnel to ensure the plan was aligned with statutory laws and organizational goals? What was your method for assessing the risks and what was the outcome of your plan in preserving personnel and resources?



4.

Describe the most complex safety inspection you have conducted in a high-risk industrial or tactical environment. What specific hazards did you identify, how did you assess their risk potential, and what immediate and long-term corrective actions did you recommend to management? Please detail the physical demands of the inspection and any Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) required.



5.

Describe a situation where you investigated an employee complaint of unsafe or unhealthful working conditions. How did you approach the investigation, communicate with the employee and management, and what steps did you take to develop and implement a corrective action plan?



6.

This position requires serving as a project officer for safety initiatives and leading interdisciplinary working groups. Tell us about a time you led a group with diverse members (e.g., managers, union representatives, supervisors, employees) to resolve a complex safety issue. How did you facilitate collaboration, address conflicting viewpoints, and develop a successful strategy to improve overall safety performance?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you for employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙