Position Title
IT Specialist (DATAMGT)
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-26-13002103-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you wish to be considered under a CTAP (Career Transition Assistance Plan) eligibility? You may qualify for CTAP eligibility if all of the statements apply to you:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy.
You have been (or will be) involuntarily separated from the agency advertising this position, due to a reduction-in-force.
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position separated from.
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position separated from.
Your last performance rating of record is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
For more information about CTAP, please see the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility for CTAP:
You must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must also submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing position, tenure code, grade & step, and full name/DOB/SSN.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you wish to be considered under the ICTAP (Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan) eligibility? You may qualify for ICTAP if all of the following statements apply to you:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the position being advertised.
You were (or will be) separated from a position at an agency outside of the HHS due to a reduction-in-force.
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you have been (or will be) separated.
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated.
Your last performance rating of record is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
For more information about ICTAP, please review the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility for ICTAP:
You must submit a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must also submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action, showing the agency, position held, tenure and appointment codes, and full biographical information (name, DOB, and SSN).
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the competitive service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the competitive service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former competitive service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. San Francisco, CA
 C. District of Columbia, DC
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Woodlawn, MD
 G. Boston, MA
 H. Kansas City, MO
 I. New York, NY
 J. Philadelphia, PA
 K. Dallas, TX


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each task in the following groups, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one letter for each item. Failure to support your answers to this questionnaire in your resume may result in a loss of consideration.


1.
Do you have the IT related experience demonstrating proficiency in each of the following competencies listed below:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change.
Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems.
Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. NOTE: Your resume must support your response to this question. Failure to provide sufficient evidence of the required competencies in your resume may result in an ineligible rating.
Reasoning - Identifies rules, principles, or relationships that explain facts, data, or other information; analyzes information and makes correct inferences or draws accurate conclusions.
Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.
Technical Competence - Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues. 
 Yes, my resume demonstrates I possess the required competencies for this position.
 No, I do not have the experience described above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience as related to the basic qualification requirements for the Information Technology Specialist (Data Management) GS-2210-15 position. NOTE: Your resume must support your response to this question. Failure to provide sufficient evidence of the required competencies in your resume may result in an ineligible rating.
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which provided the applicant with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate: (1) hands on experience designing and delivering complex data systems design and applications while navigating technical and regulatory constraints; (2) defining and leading the implementation of modern delivery standards and capabilities, including Continuous Integration/ Continuous Delivery, test automation, monitoring, and Infrastructure-as-Code for a platform or enterprise; (3) leading the design and implementation of scalable cloud-based modern application and data architectures via Agile product delivery; and (4) working with partner organizations to drive successful delivery outcomes.
 I do not have the experience described above in option A.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information stated above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙