Position Title
Park Ranger (Protection), Law Enforcement Specialist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
LE-MP-26-12985577-MR-SD1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


3.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career- conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced. 

To verify your eligibility as a current National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


2.
To qualify based on education, you must submit a legible copy of transcripts from an accredited institution with your name, school name, credit hours, course level, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. Transcripts do not need to be official, but if you are selected for this position and you used your education to qualify, you must provide official transcripts before you begin work.

If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet qualification requirements, you must show that your education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement; and I have provided this information with my application package if applicable. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.
 No, I do not certify and understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.


3.
Merit Promotion applicants who are in a current GS position or have held a GS position any time in the previous 52 weeks (one year) must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-11 position you must have served 52 weeks (one year) at the GS/GL-09. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. SF-50(s) that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application (e.g. Promotions, STEP Increases, etc.). Award SF-50s will not be accepted for determination of time-in-grade. Note: Time-In-Grade requirements also apply to former Federal civilian employees applying for reinstatement as well as current employees applying for Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) appointment.
 I meet the Time-in-Grade requirements as defined above and have provided the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.
 I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirements as defined above and/or unable to provided the appropriate documentation with my applicant package.


4.
Are you including a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Essays
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating. Please limit your resume to no more than 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. You can only submit one resume; Only the resume submitted under the "Resume" "Document Type" will be used to determine your qualifications and for rating purposes. Only one resume will be used to evaluate your qualifications. In the event you submit more than one resume, only the latest submission will be reviewed.


Minimum Qualifications for Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-11 position. Read all the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these experience requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED, OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GL/GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience includes performing law enforcement duties for the protection, conservation, use, and management of natural and/or cultural resources in park areas or similar operations, which involved the application of law enforcement authorities and procedures to protect visitors and resources; providing law enforcement or investigative services which include apprehending, detaining, detection, and prosecution of individuals; applying knowledge of applicable laws, regulations, policies, and areas of jurisdiction when serving as a person with law enforcement authority; responding to accidents, emergencies, and/or natural disaster; using precautionary methods and techniques while patrolling to mitigate any crimes or violations of the law.
 I possess at least 3 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field related to the occupation such as natural resource management, natural sciences, earth sciences, history, archaeology, anthropology, park and recreation management, law enforcement/police science, social sciences, museum sciences, business administration, public administration, behavioral sciences, or sociology, or other closely related subjects pertinent to the management and protection of natural and cultural resources.
 I have successfully completed a COMBINATION of education and experience as described above. To combine education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 36 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months of experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. IMPORTANT NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts as proof of any claimed education.
 I do not have the level of experience and/or education described in the statements above.


Read each question carefully and select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. Failure to respond to a question will result in an ineligible rating.


Mandatory Minimum Entry Age (Selective Factor)


2.
This position requires applicants to be at least 21 years or older at the time of application.

 I am currently at least 21 years old.
 I do NOT meet the mandatory minimum entry age requirement for this position.


Type 1 Law Enforcement Commission (Selective Factor)


3.
In addition to the requirements in the question above, selectees must possess or be able to obtain a Type I Law Enforcement Commission by entrance on duty date, which requires successful completion of an approved Law Enforcement Training Program. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for the position. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.

 Yes, I have a Type I NPS Law Enforcement Commission (or equivalent) or have held one within the last three years, have it documented in my resume AND a copy will be uploaded to my application package. (You must indicate your commission number and date, location and date of your last 40-hour refresher training, and the date of your last established proficiency in the use of firearms in your resume.)
 I will successfully complete the above Type I Law Enforcement Training Program prior to the closing date of the announcement. (You must indicate your expected completion date in your resume).
 I do not have a Type I Law Enforcement Commission and will not be able to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement.


Primary Law Enforcement Experience (Selective Factor)


4.
This is a covered secondary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S. C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). In addition to the qualifying experience and/or education described above, applicants for this position must possess experience gained by substantial service in a primary law enforcement position or equivalent. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.

 I have substantial, documented experience in a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent documented experience outside the Federal government.
 I do NOT meet the primary law enforcement experience requirements for this position.


NOTE regarding covered secondary law enforcement positions: Applicants may meet qualification requirements but may not be eligible for special retirement coverage. If such an applicant is selected, they will be placed in the regular retirement system. To be eligible for Secondary retirement coverage under CSRS, an employee must transfer directly (without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a primary position to a secondary position. To be eligible for Secondary retirement coverage under FERS, an employee must: 1) transfer directly (without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a primary position to a secondary position; AND 2) complete 3 years of service in a primary rigorous position including any such service during which no FERS deductions were withheld; AND 3) must be continuously employed in a secondary position(s) since moving from a primary rigorous position, except for any break in employment from a secondary position that began with involuntary separation (not for cause). It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure this office has enough information to determine your special retirement status to ensure you do not lose benefits (normally through submission of your work history or other documentation that demonstrates work history of approved covered positions). You must let this office know if you are in a Primary position.


Firearm (Selective Factor)


5.
This position requires an employee to carry a firearm while performing duties and maintain firearm proficiency.
 Yes, I understand and agree to the firearm requirements for this position.
 No, I do NOT agree to the firearm requirements for this position.


Valid State Driver's License (Selective Factor)


6.
This position requires a current, valid state driver's license in good standing. Upon tentative selection, you will be required to submit driver's license information.

 Yes, I possess a current, valid state driver's license.
 I do NOT meet the driver's license requirements for this position.


Verification Statement


7.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙