Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Cardiac Catheterization)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12844562-26-LS Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, December 4, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
 Cardiac Catheterization Technicians perform, under a physician's direction, diagnostic tests, both invasive and noninvasive, of the pulmonary system (lung) and the cardiovascular system (heart and circulation). They operate, monitor, and collect data from instruments used in procedures such as cardiac catheterization, angiography, valvuloplasty, angioplasty, electrophysiology studies, cardiac pacing, or cardiac pacemaker or leadwire insertion.

Registration is offered by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) as a Registered Cardiovascular Invasive Specialist (RCIS).

 Certification. Registration by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (ccn as a registered Cardiovascular Invasive Specialist (RCIS) is highly desirable. Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are also desirable for employees at this level. 
 


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Citizenship of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g,VA HANDBOOK 5005/54 PART II APPENDIX G27.)

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a,VA HANDBOOK 5005/54 PART II APPENDIX G27.)

Are you proficient in the English language?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATION: The following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Experience requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Experience. 3 years of progressive experience as a Medical Instrument Technician Cardiac Catheterization parenthetical with at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-08), which is directly related to the duties of the position.

Examples include, but are not limited to: scrubbing, circulating, operating equipment, etc., on the most complex examination and treatment procedures including procedures such as endocardial biopsy, radio frequency ablation procedures, and intra-aortic balloon pump therapy for very critical patients. Preparing and administering cardiac medications as directed by the attending physician. Mentoring and training lower graded technicians, nurses, nursing students, and cardiopulmonary technology students on cardiac catheterization laboratory procedures and assist the supervisor/manager with quality control and performance improvement activities.

Do you have at least one year specialized experience?

NOTE: You must provide detailed experience in your resume, we do not make assumptions.
 Yes
 No


4.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. This would be experience that demonstrates possession of the knowledge required to provide cardiac catheterization technician services and/or supervisory knowledge, skills, and abilities at the full performance level.
Knowledge of the more complex examination and treatment procedures and techniques in order to provide training and supervision in these procedures, to evaluate and initiate performance improvement projects, and to write policies, procedures, and protocols, that pertain to the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory.
Knowledge of JCAHO and other regulatory requirements.
Ability to communicate effectively and professionally with employees at varying grade levels.
Ability to manage and supervise employees.
Ability to provide, or provide for, staff development and training.
Do you possess these KSA's?
NOTE: You must show this in your resume, we do not make assumptions.
 Yes
 No


Certifications: Do you possess one of the following?


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are required. Can you provide proof if your certifications?
 Yes
 No


FINAL INSTRUCTIONS:  
RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties: be as detailed as possible
Month & year start/end dates: (e.g. June 2017 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status: (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade: for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
 
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.
***We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.***
 
SF-50 Reminder for Federal Employees - Must be most current to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. **Note* SF-50 must be an updated one (2022)**
 
Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.
 
Professional Certification Reminder - You must submit a copy of a current active certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.
 
Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.
 
FAILURE TO SUBMIT THE APPROPRIATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS WILL CAUSE YOU TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR CONISDERATION OF THIS POSITION.
 
You will not be able to submit documents after the closing date of this announcement.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙