Position Title
Physical Security Specialist
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12948899-M Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized experience for the GS-13 is one year of experience at the GS-12 level, or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position.
Specialized experience is defined as:
- Applying risk assessment methods, threat assessment principles and physical security practices in order to make recommendations, plan, evaluate and develop physical security program components for the protection of resources and high-value assets.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
For the GS-12, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility at the GS-11 level in the Federal service or equivalent, which have equipped the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position.
Specialized experience for this position includes;
- Experience performing physical security administration work that involves, on own initiative, providing guidance and recommendations regarding access control systems, policies, programs, and training in order to safeguard personnel, facilities, materials, and documents.

Examples of such experience could include:
- Working with alarm systems, CCTV controls, access control methods and emergency response procedures; OR
- Conducting physical security surveys and assessments, and making recommendations from these; OR
- Investigating security problems and developing alternative solutions; OR
- Researching and analyzing physical security techniques, identifying problems, gathering information and developing and implementing plans and solutions; OR
- Drafting and presenting physical security procedures and policies.

For the GS-12, select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.


3.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have experience in implementing risk assessment methods and threat assessment principles?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate where your experience can be found in your resume by indicating date(s) and name(s) of employers.


6.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your demonstrated experience with security programs and initiatives.
 A. I have experience with an emergency preparedness program that includes emergency action planning and Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP) for a building or facility.
 B. I have managed physical security in a building or facility.
 C. I have maintained a Personal Identity Verification (PIV) Card issuance program that involves enrollment, security officer, and activation roles in the issuance of cards to employees and contractors.
 D. None of the above.


7.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your demonstrated experience in implementing new and improved security methods.
 A. I have identified critical issues in need of improvement.
 B. I have developed methods and approaches for gathering data
 C. I have evaluated program criteria.
 D. I have applied analytical techniques to review data and processes.
 E. None of the above.


8.
Please indicate all of the following which you have experience using:
 A. State-of-the-art intrusion detection systems and devices.
 B. Safes and other storage containers.
 C. Locks and locking systems.
 D. Personnel entry control systems.
 E. Security measures applicable to transporting and shipping requirements.
 F. None of the above.


9.
Please indicate the level to which you have conducted surveys and analyses to identify the criticality and vulnerability of facilities or work sites and the threats against them:
 A. I have consulted with operating personnel and/or other security specialists to devise protection systems.
 B. I have developed security surveys and vulnerability assessments.
 C. I have conducted security surveys or vulnerability assessments.
 D. I have resolved problems or conflicts between physical security requirements and agency missions.
 E. I have adjusted security systems with multiple conflicting requirements.
 F. I have analyzed inventory and control procedures to assure that protected material is accounted for.
 G. I have reviewed law enforcement and security procedures and functions to ensure that required personnel are available and material controls are being properly enforced.
 H. None of the above.


10.
Select the following statement(s) that best describe your experience independently making sound, well-informed, and objective decisions.
 A. I have identified and evaluated alternatives to decisions.
 B. I have made sound and timely decisions in uncertain situations.
 C. I have made decisions involving issues that impact the work and outcomes of the organization.
 D. I have made decisions with little or no supervisory review.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
Select the statement(s) that describe your experience with security programs and systems.
 A. I have interpreted higher-level policy guidance for the purpose of establishing security operating requirements and procedures.
 B. I have monitored and controlled facilities to ensure physical and personnel security requirements are met.
 C. I have maintained an information security program to implement and monitor policies, instructions, and procedures for safeguarding and use of classified information.
 D. I have established and monitored operating procedures for inventory control and accountability of classified information.
 E. I have interpreted policies and directives to develop, implement, and maintain an effective security program.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


12.
Please indicate which of the following you have performed in the area of physical security:
 A. Reviewing designs of protection systems or protection devices.
 B. Inspecting facilities where sensitive material is or will be located.
 C. Ascertaining the use to be made of material in an organization, who is to use it and how it should be protected.
 D. Evaluating the effectiveness of existing security practices.
 E. Recommending the type of control requirements, procedures and facilities needed.
 F. Assuring that organization personnel are adhering to established policies and practices.
 G. Recommending appropriate action to correct deficiencies in physical security systems and practices.
 H. Determining or recommending the number and kind of safes, alarms, locks, fences and/or markings needed.
 I. Laying out restricted or controlled areas.
 J. Setting up personnel circulation, control and entry systems.
 K. Developing procedures for the movement and handling of sensitive material.
 L. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
Do you have work experience reading, understanding, and evaluating site/facility engineering drawings for potential security deficiencies and/or to design and implement installation security systems?
 Yes
 No


14.
Please indicate where your experience can be found in your resume by indicating date(s) and name(s) of employers.


15.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your responsibilities in security and related fields:
 A. I have investigated bidders before recommending award of contracts to determine their ability to comply with contract conditions.
 B. I have provided, secured, and negotiated for resources and services required to effectively safeguard property and personnel.
 C. I have developed emergency preparedness and disaster recovery plans.
 D. I have developed budget estimates and justifications for security functions.
 E. I have monitored storage space leasing operations to ensure compliance with regulations.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


16.
Please indicate all of the following that you have performed pertaining to physical security concepts, principles and practices:
 A. Advised management on new advances in physical security techniques.
 B. Recommended and specified policies and methods for enhancing efficiency of physical security systems through modifications and applications of new techniques and evolving technology.
 C. Planned and made recommendations for programs to develop long-term studies and requirements for physical security equipment.
 D. Designed physical security systems for application to protect agency resources.
 E. Evaluated and made recommendations for major agency and interagency projects.
 F. Implemented guidance in agency standards or policies for major security programs.
 G. None of the above.


17.
Choose all of the statements that describe the functions your performed in the physical security field.
 A. I have conducted surveys and plans for installation of intrusion detection systems.
 B. I have conducted technical security countermeasures.
 C. I have conducted research for the best available physical security and intrusion detection systems.
 D. I have applied a working knowledge of telecommunication and electronic equipment.
 E. I have performed physical security surveys and evaluations of various type assets and presented results both in person and in written reports.
 F. None of the above


18.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your experience in writing procedures, policies, correspondence and other materials related to security issues or programs.
 A. I have developed operating instructions and internal directives for an investigative organization.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and/or proposals.
 C. I have provided reviews and comments on changes in regulations, procedures, newsletter articles or policy statements.
 D. I have written technical material targeted for emergency preparedness, personnel, and/or physical security.
 E. I have written detailed narrative reports.
 F. I have answered correspondence on security information.
 G. I have written correspondence to State, local, and/or other Federal agencies on emergency preparedness, physical, and/or personnel security issues.
 H. None of the above.


19.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your written communication skills in dealing with security issues.
 A. I have developed written materials on security matters for briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 B. I have written clear and concise documents on security issues relating to protection.
 C. I have drafted policy and procedural material on security issues for dissemination to organizational level components.
 D. I have drafted reports, memoranda and correspondence on security issues for signature by higher-level officials.
 E. None of the above


20.
Choose statement(s) that describe your experience writing procedures, policies, correspondence and other materials related to security issues or programs.
 A. I have developed operating instructions and internal directives for an investigative organization.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries or justifications, investigative reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, and/or proposals.
 C. I have provided reviews and comments on changes in regulations, procedures, newsletter articles or policy statements.
 D. I have written technical material targeted for emergency preparedness, physical, and/or personnel security.
 E. I have written detailed narrative reports.
 F. I have answered correspondence on security information.
 G. I have written correspondence to State, local, and/or other Federal agencies on emergency preparedness, physical, and/or personnel security issues.
 H. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙