Position Title
Surface Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor (Title 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13037233-AR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This is a supervisory position which will require the supervision of one or more personnel. Do you accept this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Specialized Experience Requirement for the Surface Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor, WS-5801-11 position.

 I have experience or training leading to an extensive knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex interconnecting systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify interconnected complex systems on a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Extensive knowledge of state of the art electrical, electronic, complex hydraulic, pneumatic, and other major non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of major mechanical systems. Extensive knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Skill and knowledge to develop or improvise methods, alter parts, and make repairs in the absence of technical guidelines (such as modifying parts to fit and mesh into systems for which the parts were not designed); improvise modifications to equipment to correct recurring malfunctions; and design modifications to meet special test requirements or other special needs. – In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


2.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience or training.


3.
Are you a E-7/SFC not to exceed a E-9/CSM -OR - W-1/WO1 not to exceed W-3/CW3?. Civilians without prior service should respond "No".

 Yes, I am a E-7/SFC not to exceed a E-9/CSM.
 Yes, I am a W-1/WO1 not to exceed W-3/CW3.
 I do not possess one of the above listed ranks.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? For Dual-Status Technician positions service affiliation under Title 32 USC 709 is required.
Military skill set is determined by AFSC/MOS requirements. Upon selection, individuals must be assigned to a compatible military AFSC/MOS per statutes and National Guard Bureau regulations and must obtain/maintain all requirements of the AFSC/MOS.

MOS: WO 91 Series Enlisted: 12, 13, 14, 19, 25, 88, 90, 91, 92, 94

 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your current rank and /MOSAFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? If yes please upload a copy of your orders.

 Yes
 No


7.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙