Position Title
Administrative Support Assistant (OA)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPS-26-13040904-DE-MDW Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


2.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
This job opportunity announcement is a "Shared Recruitment" between multiple bureaus within the Department of the Interior. Select each bureau you are willing to be considered for.

Note: You MUST select one or more bureau's to be considered for this position.
 A. Bureau of Indian Affairs
 B. Bureau of Indian Education
 C. Bureau of Land Management
 D. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
 E. Bureau of Reclamation
 F. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
 G. Bureau of Trust Funds Administration
 H. National Park Service
 I. Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
 J. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
 K. U.S. Geological Survey


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a GS-0303-05/06/07 Administrative Support Assistant (OA) position in Yellowstone National Park. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must select only ONE response for each item. Your responses must be supported by and documented in your resume, transcripts and other submitted documentation.


1.
From the descriptions below select one response that best describes how your background meets the experience or education requirements for an Administrative Support Assistant (OA), GS-0303-05 position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-303-04. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to the following: Performing administrative functions such as payroll, personnel, travel, procurement, budget, and/or formal correspondence.
 I have successfully completed four years of education above high school (120 semester hour or 180 quarter hours) in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience. NOTE: Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours of a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. Two full academic years of study, or 60 semester hours, beyond the second year is equivalent to l year of specialized experience. For example, I have six months of specialized experience described in A above (50% of the experience requirement), and three years of college study from an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education).
 I do not possess the experience stated above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the experience or education requirements for an Administrative Support Assistant (OA), GS-0303-06 position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-303-05. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to the following: Performing a wide variety of advanced administrative functions such as coordinating payroll, preparing and entering personnel actions, coordinating travel arrangements, managing a procurement system, and preparing, tracking, and reconciling an organization's budget.
 I do not possess the experience stated above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the experience or education requirements for an Administrative Support Assistant (OA), GS-0303-07 position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-303-06 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to the following: Performing a wide variety of advanced administrative functions such as advising employees on payroll regulations and serving as payroll coordinator; Serving as liaison with Human Resources by preparing and entering personnel actions, processing employee paperwork, and coordinating background investigations; Serving as the technical advisor for travel processes and regulations; Advising on procurement; Performing budget and financial management by collecting data for a budget, making recommendations, tracking expenditures, creating budgetary reports, and reconciling an organization's budget.
 I do not possess the experience stated above.


4.
The duties of this position require the applicant to have the ability to type at least 40 words per minute. From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes your typing ability. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE.
 I currently type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5-minute typing sample with three or fewer errors.
 No, I do not currently type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5-minute test.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙