Position Title
Staff Psychologist - Primary Care-Mental Health Integration
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12889571-26-DMD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Gainesville, FL
 B. The Villages, FL


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs - Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the minimum requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS - The basic requirements for employment as a Staff Psychologist within the VHA are prescribed by the Psychologist Qualification Standard - GS-0180 - February 7, 2018. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a psychologist on the effective date (02/07/2018) of the Psychologist Qualification Standard - GS-0180 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education (i.e., degree and internship requirements) and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Psychologist Qualification Standard - GS-0180 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


1.
Education - Do you possess at least one (1) of the following Educational Requirements?
Have a doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS), or the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) at the time the program was completed.
-OR-
Have a doctoral degree in any area of psychology and, in addition, successfully complete a re-specialization program (including documentation of an approved internship completed as part of the re-specialization program) meeting BOTH of the following conditions:
The re-specialization program must be completed in an APA or a CPA accredited doctoral program; -AND-
The specialty in which the applicant is retrained must be consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed.
-OR-
Have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally-accredited institution, with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature.

NOTE: Educational transcripts must be submitted with your application packet, it may be unofficial but must include/provide degree and degree conferred/awarded date.
 Yes, I meet the Basic Education requirement -OR- I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision.
 No, I do NOT meet the Basic Education requirement, NOR do I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision.


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your doctoral education.
Name of Institution
City and State
Major/Specialty/Program Focus
Level of Education (diploma, degree, etc.)
Month and Year conferred/graduated


2.
Internship - Do you possess at least one (1) of the following Internship Requirements?
Successful completion a professional psychology internship training program that was accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed and that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed.
-OR-
New VHA psychology internship programs that are in the process of applying for APA accreditation are acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement, provided that such programs were sanctioned by the VHA Central Office Program Director for Psychology and the VHA Office of Academic Affiliations at the time that the individual was an intern;
-OR-
VHA facilities that offered full-time, one-year pre-doctoral internships prior to PL 96-151 (pre-1979) are considered to be acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement;
-OR-
Applicants who completed an internship that was not accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed may be considered eligible for hire only if they are currently board certified by the American Board of Professional Psychology in a specialty area that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed.
-OR-
Applicants who have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally-accredited institution with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature may fulfill this internship requirement by having the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience in a site specifically acceptable to the candidate's doctoral program. If the internship experience is not noted on the applicant's official transcript, the applicant must provide a statement from the doctoral program verifying that the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience was completed in a site acceptable to the doctoral program.

NOTE: This information must be supported on resume/CV, we cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Board Certification: Persons hired to psychology positions in the VHA who completed an internship that was NOT accredited at the time the program was completed must be board certified by the American Board of Professional Psychology in a specialty area that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. The board certificate must be current and the applicant must abide by the certifying body's requirement for continuing education.
 Yes, I meet the Basic Internship requirement -OR- I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision.
 No, I do NOT meet the Basic Internship requirement, NOR do I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your Psychology internship.
Name of Institution
City and State
Specialty/Program Focus
Month and Year began and completed


3.
Licensure - Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?

EXCEPTION - Non-licensed applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate psychologist at the GS-11 or GS-12 grade under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405 [(c)(2)(B)] for a period not to exceed two years from the date of employment on the condition that such a psychologist provide care only under the supervision of a psychologist who is licensed. Failure to obtain licensure during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment.
 Yes
 No, I am not currently licensed. However, I am working towards full licensure and intend to be licensed as a psychologist within the next two years.
 No, I am not licensed and do not intend to obtain licensure as a psychologist.


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding your Psychology licensure.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Issue date
Expiration date


GRADE DETERMINATIONS - In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


4.
Staff Psychologist, GS-11 (Entry Level) - No experience beyond the Basic Requirements is required.

Do you possess the Basic Requirements to be appointed at the GS-11 Entry Level?
 Yes, I meet the Basic Requirements of a Staff Psychologist.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Requirements. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Requirements. However, I meet the Exception to Licensure as stipulated in the Psychologist Qualification Standard and anticipate obtaining Licensure within a two-year period.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Requirements and acknowledge that I may not be considered further for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Staff Psychologist, GS-12 (Developmental Level) - In addition to the Basic Requirements, Staff Psychologists must possess the following Grade Requirements to qualify at the GS-12 level.
Experience - At least one year of experience as a professional psychologist equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11).
-AND-
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) - In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of and ability to apply a wide range of professional psychological treatments or assessment methods to a variety of patient populations.
Ability to design and implement effective treatment strategies.
Ability to incorporate new clinical procedures.
Ability to conduct research activities, such as designing and implementing clinical research projects (staff psychologists with specified research job duties).
Ability to perform basic research tasks of scholarship and research execution within the context of an established research team, including research participant relations, research documentation, data acquisition, maintenance, and collaboration.
NOTE: Psychologists at the GS-12 level who are not licensed (and meet the Exception to Licensure) must practice under the supervision of a licensed psychologist but with less intense supervision than at the GS-11 grade level.

Do you possess the Experience and KSAs as annotated above to meet the grade requirements of the Staff Psychologist, GS-12 (Developmental Level)?
 Yes
 No


6.
Staff Psychologist, GS-13 (Full Performance, Level) - In addition to the Basic Requirements, Staff Psychologists must possess the following Grade Requirements to qualify at the GS-13 level.
Experience - At least two years of experience as a professional psychologist, with at least one year equivalent to the GS-12 grade level.
-AND-
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) - In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of, and ability to apply, professional psychological treatments to the full range of patient populations.
Ability to provide professional advice and consultation in areas related to professional psychology and behavioral health.
Knowledge of clinical research literature.

Do you possess the Experience and KSAs as annotated above to meet the grade requirements of the Staff Psychologist, GS-13 (Full Performance, Level)?
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙