Position Title
Maintenance Worker (Equipment Repairer)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13038920 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Maintenance Worker (Equipment Repaier) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating


1.
Applicant must have experience with maintenance and repairs of outdoor recreation equipment. Describe your experience level.
 3 or more years of experience.
 2-3 year of experience
 One year of experience
 Less than one year of experience


2.
Describe your experience working with boats and or watersports on Lake Michigan.
 3 or more years of experience
 2 years of experience
 1 year of experience
 Less than 1 year of experience


3.
Do you have at least one years' experience and a current license to operate a 6k forklift? Must be documented on Resume to get credit.
 Yes
 No


4.
Describe your experience providing direct customer service.
 3 or more years of experience.
 2 to 3 years of experience
 1 year experience
 Less than 1 year of experience


5.
A valid state driver's license is required for this position. Do you currently have a valid state driver's license? PROOF MUST BE ATTACHED TO BE CONSIDERED FOR THIS POSITION
 Yes
 No


6.
Describe your experience in establishing regular cycles for equipment preventative maintenance.
 3 or more years of experience
 2 to 3 years of experience
 1 year of experience
 Less than 1 year of experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙