Position Title
Biologist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPS-26-13001755-DHA-RAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All US Citizens
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


1.
This is a Career-Seasonal position and subject to release and recall procedures. A permanent career-seasonal position includes all the benefits of permanent employment but does not provide employment on a full year-round basis. As such, the selectee will be in a non-pay/non-duty status for XX weeks/ XX pay periods during their first service year in this position.

After their first service year, Career Seasonal employees are guaranteed to work at least 6 months per year, but not more than 50 weeks per year. An employment agreement is required and can be changed annually. Are you willing to accept a permanent, career seasonal position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Sausalito, CA


3.
This job opportunity announcement is a "Shared Recruitment" between multiple bureaus within the Department of the Interior. Select each bureau you are willing to be considered for.

Note: You MUST select one or more bureau's to be considered for this position.
 A. Bureau of Indian Affairs
 B. Bureau of Indian Education
 C. Bureau of Land Management
 D. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
 E. Bureau of Reclamation
 F. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
 G. Bureau of Trust Funds Administration
 H. National Park Service
 I. Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement
 J. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
 K. U.S. Geological Survey


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biologist, GS-0401-11 position with the National Park Service (NPS). NSTRUCTIONS: Please review the following questions carefully. To determine whether you are qualified for this position, your response must clearly demonstrate that you meet all minimum qualification requirements. Your resume and application package must fully support your answers.


EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION SECTION: It is important that your application package submitted, including a resume or application form, clearly shows how you possess the experience and skill levels you claim in this questionnaire. Each of your responses must be clearly supported by your education, training, and/or specific work experience you describe in your application packet submitted for this position (application form or resume, transcripts, list and description of training completed, and/or other items you submit). If not, your score will be lowered, or you will be found not qualified. The information you provide will be verified. Any exaggeration of your experience, false statements, or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for rating you ineligible, not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must document your course work and/or degree completed in your resume or other application materials you submit. You must submit a copy of your transcripts or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information as described previously, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration. If selected, a copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic education or experience requirements for the Biologist, GS-0401-11 position. Read all responses before making your selection.
 I have a degree in Degree in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. You must include transcripts.
 I have a combination of education and experience: Courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. You must include transcripts and your resume must reflect hours worked per week.
 I do not have the education or experience listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience for a Biologist, GS-0401-11.
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). This specialized experience includes activities such as: 1) developing and implementing priorities for ecological management of California Mediterranean ecosystems; 2) experience in ecological monitoring, compiling and analyzing monitoring results, and communicating monitoring results to a variety of audiences; and 3) project and program management including developing work plans, scopes of works, budget tracking, grant writing, and contract/agreement administration. Your resume must reflect hours worked per week.
 I have successfully completed 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. You must submit a copy of your transcripts.
 I have a combination of qualifying specialized experience and graduate level education. You must submit a copy of your transcripts, and your resume must reflect hours worked per week.
 I do not have the experience listed above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above or I no longer wish to be considered for this vacancy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙