Position Title
Senior Materials Engineer
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAStratMat-26-12899659-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
The purpose of this next question is to verify you meet the Basic Requirement for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. ALL APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.

 I have a bachelor’s degree or higher in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET, or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience, as demonstrated with having a current professional registration or licensure as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience, as demonstrated successfully passing the written test, Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience, as demonstrated by having successfully completed the specified academic courses: least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under item A above. The courses are fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in item A.
 I have a combination of education and experience, as demonstrated by my education in related curriculum. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor’s degree in an appropriate scientific field: Engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, with at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Mastery knowledge of the commodities held in the National Defense Stockpile, commodity markets, strategic and critical materials supply chains, acquisition, and applications within civilian and defense industries; Demonstrated experience performing studies of scientific and technological matters related to strategic and critical materials; Expert knowledge of the application of data analysis to systematically apply statistical, precise, and logical techniques to make decisions and support conclusions to senior leadership within the Agency, Department of Defense, Congress and industry partners.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to respond to all questions may result in your disqualification for this position.


3.
The National Defense Stockpile holds a significant quantity of a specific cobalt-based superalloy intended for use in high-temperature gas turbine engines. After years of storage, concerns have arisen about potential material degradation, specifically regarding creep resistance and susceptibility to high-temperature corrosion. Which combination of material testing procedures would provide the most comprehensive assessment of the alloy's current fitness for service in its intended high-temperature application?

 A combination of Creep-Rupture Testing to evaluate deformation under high temperature and load, Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA) to assess oxidation/corrosion rates, and Tensile Testing at elevated temperatures to confirm strength and ductility.
 A combination of Room-Temperature Tensile Testing to measure strength a Chemical Composition Analysis using Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP) to verify alloy?s constituents.
 A combination of Hardness Testing (e.g. Rockwell) and a visual inspection for surface discoloration.
 A combination of Density Measurement and Electrical Resistivity testing.


4.
The National Defense Stockpile is planning an acquisition of Neodymium Iron Boron (NdFeB) magnet block to support electric power motors in guided missile systems. The motor must function reliably during flight, where it is likely to experience a significant increase in operating temperature. When determining what specifications of a magnet will be most critical, which physical property should be prioritized?

 Intrinsic Coercivity
 Curie Temperature
 Remanence
 Maximum Energy Density


5.
You are assisting the economics team with evaluating the supply chain of Yttrium to better advise on whether a stockpile acquisition is appropriate. A critical application you have been tasked with understanding is the use of Yttrium in Neodymium-doped Yttrium Aluminum Garnet (Nd:YAG) crystals for military laser systems. Which of the following describes the role of Yttrium in this system?

 Yttrium absorbs the input energy and undergoes stimulated emission, allowing the laser to output a characteristic wavelength of 1064 nm.
 Yttrium forms a host lattice that holds the Neodymium dopants, and act to modify the quantum state of the Nd ions within the lattice.


6.
True or False: When presented with an unsolicited but theoretically sound research proposal that lacks experimental data, the most appropriate and defensible course of action for a program manager is to immediately recommend a full-scale, multi-year development program to avoid falling behind competitors.

 True
 False


7.
The National Defense Stockpile plans to procure a material with one domestic producer, one friendly producer, and four adversarial producers. It is noted that none of the adversarial producers are sanctioned, and that there are domestic importers that are willing to provide the material from these adversarial nations. Which path for acquisition is the most reasonable?

 Allow for full-and-open competition to maximize competition and allow for cost optimization.
 Utilize FAR 6.302-2, urgent and compelling need, to limit competition to companies based in the United States or friendly nations.
 Utilize FAR 6.302-3, industrial mobilization, to limit companies that can submit proposals to those producing in the United States.
 Assume that the material will be covered by a FAR exemption waiver and attempt to avoid competition altogether without justification.


8.
DLA Strategic Materials Economists have utilized econometric modeling to determine the risk associated with five materials not currently in the stockpile. You are directed to develop acquisition packages for two of these materials for the National Defense Stockpile; based on the information below, which two materials should be prioritized?
Material A: Supply Chain Disruption Probability - 85% I Criticality to DoD - 9.5 I Single Point of Failure (sole supplier) - Yes I Price Volatility - High
Material B: Supply Chain Disruption Probability - 15% I Criticality to DoD - 10.0 I Single Point of Failure (sole supplier) - Yes I Price Volatility - Low
Material C: Supply Chain Disruption Probability - 90% I Criticality to DoD - 2.0 I Single Point of Failure (sole supplier) - Yes I Price Volatility - High
Material D: Supply Chain Disruption Probability - 30% I Criticality to DoD - 4.0 I Single Point of Failure (sole supplier) - No I Price Volatility - High
Material E: Supply Chain Disruption Probability - 85% I Criticality to DoD - 5.0 I Single Point of Failure (sole supplier) - No I Price Volatility - Low
 Materials A and E
 Materials B and D
 Materials A and B
 Materials D and E
 Materials A and C


9.
DLA Strategic Materials has been directed to mitigate risk in the cobalt sulfate supply chain. Current inventory of the National Defense Stockpile indicates that the stockpile currently contains cut-cobalt cathodes but does not contain any cobalt sulfate of the quality needed for battery production. Through market research, it has been determined that one domestic company exists capable of converting the existing cobalt cathode material to cobalt sulfate. Which of the following is the best path forward to mitigate the risk for this battery grade cobalt material?

 Do nothing as the cut-cobalt cathodes already mitigate the risk
 Develop and R&D project with a domestic company to create a secondary source capable of mitigating the risk and preventing a domestic single point of failure
 Develop a strategy with the existing domestic company to upgrade the current stockpile material
 Acquire new cobalt sulfate for the stockpile to mitigate the risk.


10.
You are leading an analysis to determine if newly discovered material should be recommended for acquisition into the National Defense Stockpile. According to the principles of strategic and critical materials management, which of the following sets of conditions presents the strongest justification for designating the material as "strategic and critical"?

 The material is extremely rare and expensive, making it a valuable commodity for investors.
 The material is indispensable for a critical defense application, its global supply is dominated by a single, geopolitical unstable nation, and there are no viable substitute materials or domestic production capabilities.
 The material is important for various commercial industries, its market price has shown high volatility, and it requires a complex and expensive refining process.
 The material is 100% recyclable, has a wide range of uses, and is produced in large quantities by multiple U.S. allies.


11.
The Assistant Secretary of Defense has asked you for a brief on why DLA Strategic Materials has decided to acquire Gallium (Ga) and Tungsten (W) for the National Defense Stockpile. Which of the following represents the best structure of brief to clearly disseminate criticality of these materials?

 Describe the criticality of the high band gap of Ga and the thermal and physical properties of W. Explain how they are manufactured and how this determines material properties.
 Describe the process by which the DLA has the authority to procure these materials, including model prioritization and inputs into the annual material plan.
 Detail the end use systems that Gallium and Tungsten play a key role in and their applications to the warfighter, including the quantities required by the systems and how that plays into the quantity being acquired.
 Present charts showing the price trends and future price forecasting for these materials. Include key future demand signals such as 5G infrastructure for Gallium and explain how that will affect market volatility and the inputs to the econometric model.


12.
You have been tasked with developing a brief for senior Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) leadership that is to be given in a one-week timeframe. Additionally, the White House has issued an order stating that one of the materials in your portfolio must be acquired within a 30-day time frame to avoid significant disruptions to the defense industrial base. To make matters worse, DLA Strategic Materials is falling behind on R&D evaluations, and multiple R&D proposals must be evaluated within a two-week timespan to avoid missing deadlines. You are the senior engineer in a group of yourself and two junior engineers, which of the following approaches would you take to lead the engineering group to be able to complete all of the above tasks effectively and on time.

 You decide to divide the work, assigning one engineer to focus exclusively on the acquisition, and one to focus exclusively on the R&D evaluations. This leaves you free to prepare the brief.
 You have all three engineers work each of the three tasks together to allow the new employees to learn about each task from watching you perform them.
 You determine the acquisition package and the OSD brief to be too important to leave to the new engineers and assign the engineers to focus on the R&D evaluations so that you can focus on optimizing the acquisition and the brief.
 You delegate various portions of all three objectives to each junior engineer, while keeping a portion of the tasks for yourself. You schedule daily check-ins to ensure that they are effectively completing the mission, and to ensure a cohesive response is given for all tasks.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙