Position Title
Veterans Claims Examiner
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
351-26-MJ-12981871-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open to the Department of Veteran Affairs applicants in the local, Muskogee, Oklahoma commuting area who are eligible for priority consideration under the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) only.


1.
Do you currently reside in the local, Muskogee, Oklahoma commuting area?

 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST answer the questions below and submit your most recent appointment SF-50 and the SF-50 that reflects when you entered your highest grade and step to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying for this job announcement as a promotion opportunity
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


3.
What is your current grade?


4.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


To be eligible for the CTAP, you must apply for a vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position ("current position" is defined as the position you held when you received your RIF/displacement notice). This vacancy announcement is for the GS-05/07 level with promotion potential to the GS-07; therefore, your current grade must be equivalent (or higher) to the grade you are applying with promotion potential to the GS-07 (or higher).


5.
Please select one response below regarding the grade you currently hold.

 I am currently at the GS-07 or higher grade level.
 I am currently at the GS-05 or higher grade level.


6.
Please select one response below regarding the promotion potential of the position you currently hold:

 My current position has promotion potential to the GS-07 or higher.
 My current position has promotion potential to the GS-05 or higher.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


7.
To qualify at the GS-5 grade, Applicants must have three years of progressively responsible experience, one year of which was equivalent to at least GS-04. General experience is defined as experience that demonstrates the ability to: (1) Analyzing problems to identify significant factors, gather pertinent data; (2) Recognizing solutions, planning and organizing work; (3) Communicating effectively orally and in writing.

 I have at least three years of progressively responsible experience, one year of which was equivalent to at least GS-04 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s or equivalent degree
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of undergraduate education beyond two years by 60 or 90 quarter hours. Add two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


8.
To qualify for the GS-07 grade level, you must have one full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement, or one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade in the normal line of progression GS-05. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: Counseling individuals about federal, state, or local benefits by explaining legal provisions, regulations, or decisions to a variety of audiences.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 or higher in federal service
 I have one full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of undergraduate education beyond two years by 60 or 90 quarter hours. Add two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙