Position Title
Social Worker - Mental Health Clinic
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12892051-26-DMD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a Social Worker within the VHA are prescribed by the Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 - September 10, 2019. The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, license/certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license/certification requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a Social Worker on the effective date (09/10/2019) of the Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education (i.e., degree and internship requirements) and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards - Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


1.
Basic Education - Do you possess a master's degree in social work (MSW) from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)?

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred.

NOTE: Graduates of schools of social work that are in candidacy status do not meet this requirement until the School of Social Work is fully accredited. A doctoral degree in social work may NOT be substituted for the master's degree in social work.

We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 Yes, I meet the Basic Education requirement.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Education Requirement. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Education Requirement and acknowledge that I may not be considered further for this position.


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Masters in Social Work:
Name of Institution
City and State
Major/Specialty/Program Focus
Month and Year conferred/graduated


2.
Basic Licensure - Persons hired or reassigned to social worker positions in the GS-0185 series in VHA must be licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level.

EXCEPTION FOR THE GS-09 LEVEL: VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure/certification examinations. This exception applies at the GS-9 grade level only.

FOR THE GS-11 GRADE LEVEL: The candidate must be licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level.

Please select the option that applies to you.
 I am licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level.
 I am not licensed or certified at the independent, master's level at this time. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 I am not licensed or certified at the independent, master's level at this time. However, I am in the process of taking the licensure/certification exam to become licensed at the independent, master's level and will meet the full state prerequisites for licensure within three years of appointment as a social worker.
 I do not meet any of these criteria and acknowledge my application may not receive further consideration.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your Social Work licensure.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Issue date
Expiration date


GRADE REQUIREMENT: Select the statement below that best describes your ability to meet the requirements for a Social Worker position at the GS-9/11 level. Please refer to the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.


3.
GS-9 Experience, Education, Licensure: None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the Basic Requirements to qualify at the GS-09 level?
 Yes, I meet the Basic Requirements.
 Yes, I meet the Basic Education Requirement. However, I do NOT currently meet the Basic License Requirement but intend on obtaining Social Work licensure within three years of appointment.
 No, I do NOT meet the Basic Requirements. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 No, I do NOT meet the Basic Requirements and I do NOT intend on obtaining Licensure. Furthermore, I acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration.


4.
GS-11 Experience or Education and Licensure: In addition to the Basic Requirements, qualified applicants at the GS-11 level must possess either the Experience -OR- Education listed below AND licensure or certification in a state at the independent practice level.
Experience - Completion of a minimum of one-year post-MSW experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the field of health care or other social-work settings, (VA or non-VA experience)
-OR-
Education - Possess a doctoral degree in social work from a school of social work that may be substituted for the required one year of professional social work experience in a clinical setting
-AND-
Licensure - Obtained licensure or certification in a state at the independent practice level.

Do you possess the Experience -OR- Education -AND- Licensure to meet the GS-11 level Grade Requirements?
 Yes, I meet the GS-11 Grade Requirements as specified above.
 No, I do not meet the GS-11 Grade Requirements. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 No, I do not meet the GS-11 Grade Requirements, and I acknowledge that I may NOT be considered further at this level.


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙