Position Title
Financial Analyst
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12988300 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Hiring Questionnaire
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Financial Analyst position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess?
 A Master's degree or higher in finance, business administration, economics, accounting, insurance, engineering, mathematics, banking and credit, law, real estate operations, statistics, or other finance related field from an accredited college or university.
 At least 2 years of progressively responsible specialized experience performing financial analysis and evaluation work.
 An equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 None of the above.


2.
How many years of work experience do you have developing procedures, techniques, and controls for performing financial and operational analysis functions of budget estimates, financial and operating statements, and special reports?
 I have 10+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 7 – 10 years of experience as described above.
 I have 4 – 6 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have using Microsoft Office Programs (e.g., Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook) to analyze financial data?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have analyzing and preparing clear, concise and technically sound reports related to financial analysis?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have 1 – 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Do you have experience using financial management system(s) SAP or Oracle?
 I have experience with both SAP and Oracle.
 I have experience with SAP only.
 I have experience with Oracle only.
 I have no experience as described above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have with accounting and/or financial analysis functions?
 I have 4+ years of experience with Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) as described above.
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above, but no specific Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) experience.
 I have 2 to 4 years of experience with Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) as described above.
 I have 2 to 4 years of experience as described above, but no specific Non-appropriated Fund (NAF) experience.
 I have less than 1 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙