Position Title
Construction Contract Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12998593 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Construction Contract Specialist position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume and transcript(s) fully support the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess?
 A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree with a major in any field.
 I possess 3 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph. D. or equivalent doctoral degree and at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I possess 3 or more years of specialized experience implementing policies and practices of general or construction contracting and at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I do not possess any of the above.


2.
Which statement best describes your experience with Acquisition Procedures and Regulations?
 My current position requires knowledge and application of Federal Acquisition Regulations, NAF Construction Regulations, and/or other governmental regulations relating to NAF and/or APF construction contracting.
 My previous position (held within the last 5 years) required knowledge and application of Federal Acquisition Regulations, NAF Construction Regulations and/or other governmental regulations relating to NAF and/or APF construction contracting.
 My current and/or previous position (held within the last 5 years) required experience with and knowledge of other governmental (non-Federal) construction contracting procedures and regulations.
 My current and/or previous position (held more than 5 years ago) required knowledge and application of governmental and/or commercial contracting regulations, not related to construction.
 I do not have any experience with the above.


3.
Which statement best describes your experience in a construction contracting position?
 I currently work in a NAF or APF Federal government construction contracting position.
 I have past (held within the last three years) work experience in a NAF or APF Federal government construction contracting position.
 I have past (held more than 3 years ago) work experience in an NAF or APF Federal government construction contracting position.
 I have work experience in a construction contracting position other than NAF or APF.
 I do not have construction contracting experience.


4.
How many years of experience experience do you have evaluating, certifying, and auditing contract proposals, awards and disbursements, or acquisition reviews?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙