Position Title
Assistant Grants Management Specialist (AGMS)
Agency
National Endowment for the Arts
Announcement Number
RG-12990597-26-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree, or a certificate from a qualifying educational institution within the previous 2 years?

-OR-

Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying career or technical education program that awards a recognized post-secondary credential (such as a Registered Apprenticeship Program or Job Corps) within the previous 2 years?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide at least one or more of the following:
transcript (official or unofficial);
a copy of the diploma (if applicable); or
other written documentation from the educational institution or career and technical education program.
-OR-

Are you veteran, who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period described above? Note: A veteran's eligibility period may not extend beyond 6 years from the date on which the individual completed the requirements of an academic course of study or career or technical education program.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Warning Statement: It is important to note that all of your responses are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and or experience, you will be rated ineligible, or your score will be lowered.


1.
Select one response from the choices below that reflects how you meet the Qualification Requirements for the GS-7 grade level.
 I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing all of the following duties: 1) Utilizing knowledge of one or more arts disciplines to provide subject matter input on arts funding programs; 2) Prioritizing and performing administrative processes and procedures, such as developing correspondence, coordinating calendars, and preparing for meetings; 3) Utilizing office automation to prepare reports and maintain records for staff, reviewers, or leadership officials; and 4) Communicating effectively and accurately with internal and external customers.
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university, AND meet one of the following provisions of Superior Academic Achievement: 1) Maintained a grade-point average of "B" (a GPA of 3.0 or higher) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 2) Maintained a grade-point average "B+" (a GPA of 3.5 or higher) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3) Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or 4) Be a member of a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. NOTE: GPAs are to be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 will round to 3.0 and 2.94 will round to 2.9. If more than 10 percent of your undergraduate course work (credit hours) were taken on a pass/fail or similar basis, your claim must be based on class standing or membership in an honor society.
 I have one full year of graduate level study, in a field that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. NOTE: One academic year of graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that your graduate school has determined to represent one academic year of full-time study. If you cannot obtain your graduate school's definition of one year of graduate study, 18 semester hours (or 27 quarter hours) should be considered as satisfying the requirement for one year of full-time graduate study.
 I possess a combination of some specialized experience as described above, but less than one year; and have some graduate education but less than one year of education as described above. However, I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that when combined, equals at least 100% of the total requirement.
 My education/experience is not reflected in any of the above statements and therefore I am not qualified for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙