Position Title
Occupational Therapist-Spinal Cord Injuries/Disorders
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12923552-26-AJ Opens in new window
Open Period
May 14, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Selective Placement Factor (SPF) - This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration.

SPF for this position: You must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in written and spoken Spanish?
 Yes. I am proficient in written and spoken Spanish.
 No. I am not proficient in written and spoken Spanish and I understand that I will no longer be considered for this position in Puerto Rico.


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, licensure, certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred to and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


INSTRUCTIONS: SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR (SPF)- This position includes a skill, knowledge, ability or other worker characteristic basic to -and essential for- satisfactory performance of the job. Selective Placement Factors are a prerequisite to appointment and represent minimum requirements for a position. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration. Evidence of the Selective Placement Factor must be reflected in your resume. The SPF for this position is: In addition to the English Language Proficiency, you must also be proficient in basic written and spoken Spanish in order to perform the duties of this position.


1.
English Language Proficiency. You must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7402(d) and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes.
 No.


2.
Education. You must have graduated from a training program which is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) or one of its predecessor organizations. Additionally, candidates must meet one of the following:

(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist.

NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005, decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.

OR,

(b) bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.

NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005, decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. or (c) master's degree or higher in occupational therapy.

OR,

(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy(a)

Do you possess the required education as described above?

 Yes.
 No.


3.
Certification. You must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.

Grandfathering Provision Exception #1: All applicants that have been employed in VHA as a permanent Occupational Therapist(OT) staff employee on December 13, 2019 or earlier (& are currently employed in this series) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of this position due to the grandfather provision if you have never left this occupation and/or have never obtained the education or license/certification requirement.

Graduate OT Exception #2: OTs who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required licensure, may be appointed, pending licensure, as a graduate OT on a temporary full-time appointment not-to-exceed two years.

Do you possess the required certification as described above?
 I have provided a copy of my certification with this application.
 No, but I am currently employed as a permanent Occupational Therapist in VHA & meet the grandfather provision exception #1 listed above. I have provided my latest SF-50 with this application.
 No, however, I meet the exception #2 listed above as a Graduate Occupational Therapist.
 No. I don?t possess the required certification, nor do I meet one of the exceptions listed above.


4.
Licensure. You must possess an active, current, full, and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. OTs must maintain current registration in the State of Licensure if this is a requirement for continuing active and current licensure in that State.

Grandfathering Provision Exception #1: All applicants that have been employed in VHA as a permanent Occupational Therapist staff employee on December 13, 2019 or earlier (& are currently employed in this series) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of this position due to the grandfather provision if you have never left this occupation and/or have never obtained the education or license/certification requirement.

Graduate OT Exception #2: OTs who otherwise meet the basic requirements, but do not possess the required licensure, may be appointed, pending licensure, as a graduate OT on a temporary full-time appointment not-to-exceed two years.

Do you possess a current, full, and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia?

 Yes. I have provided a copy of my license with this application.
 No, but I am currently employed as a permanent Occupational Therapist in VHA & meet the grandfather provision exception #1 listed above. I have provided my latest SF-50 with this application.
 No, however, I meet the exception #2 listed above as a Graduate OT.
 No. I don?t possess the required license, nor do I meet one of the exceptions listed above.


GRADE REQUIREMENT- In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


5.
Occupational Therapist GS-12 - Education, Experience, and Licensure. Completion of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.
In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence-based practice. Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
(b) Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
(c) Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
(d) Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (including durable medical equipment).
(e) Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.

Do you possess the education, experience and KSAs as described above?
 Yes.
 No


RESUME/CV REMINDER - Your resume/CV must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title; Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position); Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); and Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


DOCUMENT REMINDER- Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit a SF-50 (if you are a current VA/Federal employee), proof of passing the PANCE, certificates/registrations, transcripts and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, certification/registration, transcript(s), etc. may make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). To obtain your SF-50s, VA employees may access your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) by going to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/. All other Federal employees must contact your serving HR Office for assistance assessing your eOPF. It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙