Position Title
Health Technician (Optometry)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12875075-26-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 26, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS - Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement:
VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G52: Health Technicians (Ophthalmology) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education:
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your experience and education for the Health Technician (Ophthalmology). Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.
 I have at least one (1) year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician, OR
 I have two (2) years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or an associate degree in a health care related field, OR
 I have a combination of experience and education. Examples include: (a) Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school ~OR~ (b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialist, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces; ~OR~ (c) Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting. (TRANSCRIPTS/DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED)
 I do not possess the experience, education, or combination as described above and therefore are no longer eligible.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Grade Determination: GS-06 Health Technician (Optometry) 
In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-06 do you possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-05) which demonstrates the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?

GS-06 Knowledge, skills and abilities, that must be clearly demonstrated in your resume:
- Ability to provide patient education for eye health and/or vision conditions, to include assisting with patient contact lens insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection) care.
- Ability to accurately enter into a phoropter the autorefractometry or habitual refractive prescription (i.e., eyeglasses prescription) or lensometer findings, including sphere, cylinder and axis.
- Ability to perform patient spectacle fitting and dispensing, including selection of appropriate frame, ophthalmic lenses, interpupillary measurements (distance and near) and proper segment height determination, as well as the ability to transpose sphere, cylinder and axis.
- Ability to provide basic triage of patient telephone calls or optometry requests.
- Knowledge of ophthalmic medications and supplies needed in the process of restocking the eye clinic exam rooms.
 Yes
 No


4.
Grade Determination: GS-07 Health Technician (Optometry)

In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-07 do you possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-06) which demonstrates the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?

GS-07 Knowledge, skills and abilities, that must be clearly demonstrated in your resume:
- Ability to determine preliminary objective estimate and/or refinement of the optical status of the eye, not to include the patient's final subjective refraction.
- Ability to triage and manage eyeglasses issues (e.g., measurement of vertex distance, base curve, prism correction, center thickness, slab off, Fresnel prism, decentration, etc.).- Ability to perform accurate assessment of accommodation, near point of convergence and ocular alignment (far and near).
- Ability to assist the eye care provider (optometrist or ophthalmologist) with ophthalmic procedures.
- Ability to assist with obtaining accurate ocular cultures and smears.
- Knowledge and ability to provide advanced patient education for eye health and/or vision conditions.
 Yes
 No


5.
Grade Determination: GS-08 Health Technician (Optometry)

In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the occupation, applicants must also meet the following requirements. 

To qualify for the GS-8 grade level, applicants must have one year of experience comparable to the next lower level (GS-07) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled.

At the GS-07 Grade level Employees at this grade level serves as a full performance level health technician (optometry). The technicians perform duties such as measuring and recording visual acuity (with use of pinhole testing as indicated), obtaining accurate potential acuity meter, laser interferometry, contrast sensitivity or other specialized visual acuity measurements. The technicians also evaluate pupillary light responses and measure pupil size, determine the presence or absence of fusion and perform stereoacuity measurements. The health technicians (optometry) perform Amsler grid testing, administer eye drops under the supervision of an eye care provider (optometrist or ophthalmologist), perform basic tonometry (e.g., non-contact, Goldmann, Tono-Pen) and estimate the anterior chamber depth with a penlight or slit lamp biomicroscope. The technicians are skilled in properly reading a basic spectacle prescription using an automated or manual lensometer, obtaining accurate autorefractometry and keratometry measurements, performing confrontation and standard automated visual field testing and administering and scoring basic color vision tests (e.g., pseudoischromatic plates, Farnsworth D-15). The technicians are also adept at measuring and recording corneal thickness by pachymetry as well as performance of advanced corneal measurements, exophthalmometry, tear testing and ocular imaging (e.g., stereo fundus, basic slit lamp biomicroscopy, intraocular lens master measurements, ocular ultrasonography, posterior segment optical coherence tomography, fundus autofluorescence and/or ocular angiography).

Additionally, applicants must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
(a) Ability to provide patient education and training to manage complex eye and vision conditions.
(b) Knowledge of advanced triage of patients depending upon level of urgency or optometry needs.
(c) Knowledge of complex, non-standard treatment and/or complex examinations and techniques.
(d) Knowledge of ocular pharmacology and systemic medications with ocular side effects.

Do you meet these requirements? You must detail this in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder: If using education to meet any part of the qualification requirements, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙