Position Title
Internal Revenue Agent (Employee Plans Agent)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13020858A-TEN-0512-11T12 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (AZ7887) 7350 W Cam San Xavier, Glendale, AZ
 AB. (AZ6886) 1818 E Southern Ave, Mesa, AZ
 AI. (AZ7748) 4041 N Central Ave, Phoenix, AZ
 AJ. (CA7023) 9350 Flair Dr, El Monte, CA
 AK. (CA8513) 25520 Commercentre Dr, Lake Forest, CA
 AL. (CA0150) 300 N Los Angeles St, Los Angeles, CA
 AM. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 AN. (CA7395) 801 Civic Center Dr, Santa Ana, CA
 AO. (CA7816) 21040 Califa St, Woodland Hills, CA
 AP. (CO1656) 600 17th St, Denver, CO
 AQ. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 AR. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 AS. (FL0061) 51 SW First Ave, Miami, FL
 AT. (FL3132) 201 S Orange Ave, Orlando, FL
 AU. (FL2437) 1248 N University Dr, Plantation, FL
 AV. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 AW. (GA2004) 2888 Woodcock Blvd, Atlanta, GA
 AX. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn St, Chicago, IL
 AY. (IL2337) 2001 Butterfield Rd, Downers Grove, IL
 AZ. (IL2558) 5100 River Rd, Schiller Park, IL
 BA. (IN0133) 575 N Pennsylvania, Indianapolis, IN
 BB. (MD0055) 31 Hopkins Plaza, Baltimore, MD
 BC. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 BD. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 BE. (MA0131) 15 New Sudbury St, Boston, MA
 BF. (MA6049) 103 Commercial St, Brockton, MA
 B. (MI0800) 985 Michigan Ave, Detroit, MI
 C. (MI2181) 1270 Pontiac Rd, Pontiac, MI
 D. (MN1675) 1550 American Blvd E, Bloomington, MN
 E. (MN1600) 30 E Seventh St, Saint Paul, MN
 F. (MO1833) 1122 Town and Country, Chesterfield, MO
 G. (MO2008) 2850 NE Independence, Lees Summit, MO
 H. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce, Saint Louis, MO
 I. (NJ4721) 955 S Springfield Ave, Springfield, NJ
 J. (NY7501) 999 Stewart Ave, Bethpage, NY
 K. (NY7288) 2 Metrotech Center, Brooklyn, NY
 L. (NY0350) 290 Bwy-Foley Sq, New York, NY
 M. (NY0282) 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY
 N. (NC2598) 10715 David Taylor Dr, Charlotte, NC
 O. (OH0189) 550 Main St, Cincinnati, OH
 P. (OR0043) 1220 SW 3rd Ave, Portland, OR
 Q. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 R. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 S. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 T. (TN0052) 801 Broadway, Nashville, TN
 U. (TX2835) 12309 N Mopac Expwy, Austin, TX
 V. (TX0284) 1100 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 W. (TX0302) 4050 Alpha Rd, Farmers Branch, TX
 X. (TX3077) 5555 N Beach St, Fort Worth, TX
 Y. (TX0298) 1919 Smith, Houston, TX
 Z. (TX2298) 12941 I-45 N, Houston, TX
 AA. (TX0297) 8701 S Gessner, Houston, TX
 AC. (UT1434) 105 23rd St, Ogden, UT
 AD. (UT1522) 178 S Rio Grande St, Salt Lake City, UT
 AE. (VA0088) 400 N Eighth St, Richmond, VA
 AF. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 AG. (WA8075) 1301 A St, Tacoma, WA
 AH. (WI1720) 211 W Wisconsin Ave, Milwaukee, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


4.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


5.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


6.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


7.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


8.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


9.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


10.
What is your current position title?


11.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


12.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


13.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 Yes
 No


14.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the [USER enter (BOD) names that are included in limitation] business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


Throughout the online application process, you will be asked a series of questions that will be used to determine your eligibility, qualifications, and rating and ranking for this position.  Your responses to these questions will be further verified against the information provided in your resume, transcripts, and/or any other documents provided. The level and quality of your knowledge, skills, and abilities will be evaluated throughout the hiring process.



1.
Please confirm that you understand your responses will be verified against the information provided in your resume, transcripts, and/or other documents provided during the application process?
 Yes
 No


You must submit a copy of all of your college transcripts by 11:59 p.m. ET on the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement. Failure to submit all the transcripts, clearly showing the accounting courses required, by the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement may result in a determination of "Not Qualified."  These copies do not have to be official/certified copies at this point, though official/certified copies will be necessary if selected.



2.
Do you understand that you must submit all college transcripts by the closing date or date stipulated in this announcement, and that failure to provide all the transcripts may result in a "Not Qualified" determination?
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


3.
In addition to the basic requirements, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Qualifying experience in accounting, auditing, tax, financial, legal, or other fields to sufficiently demonstrate knowledge of and skill in applying the principles, concepts and methodology of professional accounting and related fields.
Examples of qualifying experience may include (this list is not all inclusive): Interpreting and applying professional accounting and auditing techniques, and practices to examine various tax returns of individuals and/or business organizations; Examining accounting systems and records including computerized accounting and financial information systems which reflect a variety of complex financial operations (e.g., budgeting and planning, cash flow monitoring and forecasting, financial reporting, cost tracking, asset valuation and utilization); Interpretation and application of Federal tax law in the examination of tax returns for individuals, business and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations; Recommendation and implementation of Federal tax strategies (i.e., excise tax, income tax, etc.); Drafting, consolidating, and reviewing financial statements; Knowledge of federal tax and auditing guidelines related to common deductions, asset/liability reporting; Knowledge of internal controls and conducting audits as part of a team.
Managing a caseload effectively by considering complexity, prioritizing work, and tracking progress.
Researching available resources independently to solve a problem or determine the next course of action.
Identifying potential issues, summarizing facts and applying the law to draw conclusions about compliance.
Communicating technical analysis of the law as applied to a set of facts through effective oral articulation and written reports.

OR EDUCATION: A course of study that includes three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in accounting or related field of business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.

OR an equivalent amount of combined education and experience as described in paragraphs above.


Which of the following responses best describes your education related to this position?
 I have three full years of graduate level education in accounting, business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
 I have a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in accounting, business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
 I have some graduate level education that included courses in accounting, or a related field (as described in the previous response) as well as work experience working in a professional accounting or auditing environment.
 I do not have the education outlined above however I do have at least one year of experience working in a professional accounting or auditing environment. You will be given the opportunity to identify your experience in the question that follows this one.
 None of the above.


4.

GS-11
Applicants who selected responses A, B or C in the question above must select response A or B to the following question. All other applicants please select the response that best describes your accounting and business knowledge gained through experience.

Which of the following responses best describes your experience related to this position?

 I have education related to this position as indicated in my response (A, B or C) to the previous question.
 I have education related to this position as indicated in my response (A, B or C) to the previous question, and also have on-the-job experience working in a professional accounting or auditing environment.
 I have at least one year of experience working in a professional accounting or auditing environment examining various tax returns of individuals and/or business organizations, interpreting and applying Federal tax laws for individuals, businesses and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations.
 I have at least one year of experience examining accounting systems and records including computerized accounting and financial information systems which reflect a variety of complex financial operations, gathering and researching data from a variety of sources, and/or specialized accounting practices unique to a particular trade or industry, and ensuring compliance with Federal tax law for individuals, businesses and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations.
 None of the responses above accurately describe my education or experience.


5.
GS-12
Do you have 1 (one) year experience leading risk assessments and evaluations in an internal/external audit to assess internal controls and provide recommendations to strengthen controls?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-12
Do you have at least 1(one) year of specialized experience analyzing large datasets in spreadsheets and selecting samples for testing based on approved sampling methodologies.?
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-12
Do you have at least 1(one) year of specialized experience project management techniques to plan, schedule, and conduct projects, missions, organization work processes and related administrative activities to identify actual or potential problem areas, trends, deficiencies, or other similar factors affecting operations?
 Yes
 No


8.
GS-12
Do you have at least 1 (one) year of specialized experience interpretating and applying more complex Federal tax law (e.g., employee stock ownership plans, conservation easement, Micro-captive insurance, Employee retention credit, Research and Development credits, Taxation of cryptocurrency and other digital assets, Pass-through entities (BBA), Transfer pricing operations) in the examination of tax returns for individuals, business and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations?
 Yes
 No


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
GS-12
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience investigating complex individual and business taxpayers involved in offshore activities, blocker entities, tiered multiple related entities or activities or transactions designated or structured to hide or conceal income such as and other means using a wide range of financial and other investigative skill?
 Yes
 No


10.
GS-12
Do you have at least 1 (one) year experience overseeing company tax return, revenue, and expense reporting?
 Yes
 No


11.
Select the response that most accurately reflects your highest level of experience working in a professional tax, accounting or auditing environment.
 A. Certified Public Accountant (CPA)
 B. Accountant
 C. Auditor
 D. Tax Preparer
 E. Bookkeeper
 F. Adjunct Professor
 G. Retirement Plan Administrator
 H. Actuary
 I. Enrolled Agent
 J. Small Business Owner/Entrepreneur
 K. Teaching Assistant
 L. Intern /Volunteer
 M. None of the above


12.
Select all of the following which relate to your experience(s) working in a professional tax environment.
 A. Make tax law presentations to a work group within my organization (Federal, State or Corporate).
 B. Participate in the development of technical job aids and/or training desk guides on tax law for use by others.
 C. Held tactful and compelling discussions with stakeholders, to explain complex interpretation of tax laws, regulations and effectively resolve issues.
 D. Serve as a classroom instructor, within a university or organizational setting, on tax law, accounting or auditing.
 E. Worked extensively and interact effectively with a broad range of individuals in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions on the interpretation of tax issues and the impact on their business.
 F. Prepared, reviewed and analyzed separate, combined, and consolidated tax returns, tax provisions, estimated tax payments, cash tax forecasts, and extensions.
 G. None of the above


13.
Which or the following best describes your experience working in a professional accounting/auditing environment?
 Provided direction and assistance to team members while completing multiple assignments with competing deadlines.
 Provided assistance to team members while completing multiple assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completed multiple assignments with competing deadlines.
 None of the above


14.
Which of the following have you successfully performed in a professional business environment?
 A. Prepared month and/or year end statement income statements balance sheets and cash flow.
 B. Completed journal entries and account reconciliation
 C. Prepared employment or individual tax returns
 D. Monitored and/or managed spending and budgets for business
 E. Audited financial performance for business
 F. Conducted financial forecasting and risk analysis
 G. Advised clients on how to reduce costs and increase profits
 H. Compiled and presented financial and budget reports.
 I. None of the above.


15.
Which of the following best describes your accounting knowledge and/or auditing capabilities?
 Examined documents, records, accounting reports, and processes to ensure compliance with accounting and auditing principles, laws and regulations.
 Provided guidance on laws, regulations, policies, standards, or procedures to management, personnel, or customers related to tax law and/or accounting.
 Provided technical briefing to leadership on matters involving statutory provisions or regulatory requirements related to tax law and/or accounting.
 None of the above.


16.
Which of the following actions have you taken in conducting an audit, working a case, or preparing a tax return?
 A. Conduct interviews with the appropriate party to develop the facts.
 B. Request assistance from technical advisor or Lead on audit techniques or specific accounting or tax issues.
 C. Overcome issues when dealing with uncooperative/confrontational taxpayer, their representatives, or clients.
 D. Research court cases to substantiate the government, business, or clients’ position and present tax law findings.
 E. Write a Fraud Referral or Criminal Referral
 F. Issue a summons or third-party contact when necessary
 G. Coordinate auditing or case actions with other departments, business operating divisions, and/or government agencies.
 H. None of the above


17.
Which of the following research tools have you used to resolve tax issues?
 A. Internal Revenue Code (IRC)/Treasury Regulations
 B. Internal Guidelines/Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
 C. Lexis, Westlaw, Bloomberg, Accurint, CCH, and/or other similar tools
 D. Knowledge Management Portal/SharePoint (i.e., Headquarters and/or local sites)
 E. Audit Technique Guide
 F. Subject Matter Experts/Leads
 G. Financial Crime Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 H. YK1 Link Analysis or Interactive visualization tool/software for analysis of complex business structures and relationships.
 K. None of the above
 I. ERISA Outline Book (Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 - ERISA)
 J. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS)


18.
Which of the following tax-related experience(s) do you have?
 A. Administered retirement plans
 B. Serve as an Internal Revenue Agent (IRA)
 C. Serve as a Tax Compliance Officer
 D. Assist Local Counsel (i.e., Counsel and/or Appeals) with a case
 E. Identify foreign source bank transactions/activities
 F. Analyze tax return and identify abusive transactions
 G. Represent business clients in a formal audit, appeal, or tax court
 H. Represent federal or state government in conducting a formal audit of a business or corporation
 I. Prepare (e.g., consolidated, related, subsidiary) individual and/or business returns.
 J. None of the above


19.
Which of the following courses have you successfully completed? These may have been completed in an educational or professional work environment.
 A. International Tax
 B. Excise Tax
 C. Estate & Gift Tax
 D. Individual Income Tax
 E. Passthrough Entity Income Tax
 F. Corporate Income Tax
 G. Employment Tax
 H. IRS Basic A Retirement Plan training
 I. IRS Basic B Retirement Plan training
 J. None of the above.


20.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


21.
Which of the following actions have you taken in conducting an audit, working a case, or preparing a tax return?

 A. Conducted interviews with the appropriate party to develop the facts.
 B. Requested assistance from technical advisor or Lead on audit techniques or specific accounting or tax issues.
 C. Dealt with uncooperative/confrontational taxpayers, their representatives, or clients.
 D. Researched court cases to substantiate the government, business, or client’s position and presented tax law findings.
 E. Wrote a Fraud Referral or Criminal Referral.
 F. Issued a summons or third-party contact when necessary.
 G. Coordinated audits or case actions with other departments, business operating divisions, and/or government agencies.
 H. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙