Position Title
Management Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12756710 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2025 to Jul 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience in administrative functions to include: (1) Resolving and addressing inquiries from customers in an office environment; (2) Developing and presenting materials and recommendations to managers, administrative professionals, employees, and applicants, and (3) Tracking deadlines for self and others, such as receipt of official documents, reporting dates, and time management?
 Yes, more than one year experience
 Yes, less than one year experience.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


2.
Please select all database(s), software(s), and platform(s) that you have experience using.
 A. Required Spreadsheet (e.g. Microsoft Excel)
 B. Word processing (e.g. Microsoft Word)
 C. Email Applications (e.g. Microsoft Outlook, Gmail)
 D. Presentation software (e.g. Microsoft PowerPoint)
 E. Internet Browsers (e.g. Edge/Firefox/Google Chrome)
 F. None of the above


3.
This position works under the supervision of the Resort Manager who gives instructions and work assignments in broad general terms. Incumbent functions independently of day-to-day controls, referring only problems of an unusual or unprecedented nature to the Manager.  Work is reviewed in terms of overall efficiency, effectiveness and conformance with established policy.

Please describe a time where you worked with little to no supervison to accomplish a task.


4.
Are the answers to your questions supported in your resume?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙