Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist - Environmental Enforcement Section
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-054-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response below that applies to you.
 I am a current Federal employee within the Energy and Natural Resources Division, formerly the Environment and Natural Resources Division.
 I am eligible for the DOJ Career Transition Agency Program (CTAP).
 None of the above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meet the qualifications for the Legal Administrative Specialist, GS-12. Your resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-11 Federal grade level (1) interpreting legal documents that initiate and conclude environmental cases in litigation; and (2) working with the Case Management System, recording all required information into the database, interpreting and reviewing the data to assure its accuracy and completeness, and extracting the relevant data from the database in response to requests for information.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


3.
Select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance rating. (Federal employees will be required to submit a copy of their performance rating for their application.)

 Excellent
 Fully Successful
 Less than Fully Successful
 Fully Successful or Higher in a Pass/Fail System
 No Rating of Record
 Not Applicable


4.
Have you received a performance award, special-act, or achievement award(s) that is directly related to the position to which you are applying?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙