Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-12837111-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, December 4, 2025 to Friday, December 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


12.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Mobile, AL
 B. Sacramento, CA
 C. San Francisco, CA
 D. Jacksonville, FL
 E. Atlanta, GA
 F. Savannah, GA
 G. Fort Shafter, HI
 H. Wilmington, NC
 I. Charleston, SC
 J. Dallas, TX


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager, GS-0340-15 position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Program Manager, GS-0340 at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes; 1) Providing program leadership through development and direction of multidisciplinary teams to carry out Civil Works, Military and Environmental Programs, or Interagency and International Support; AND (2) Leading and fostering effective teamwork among internal and external team members including customers, contractors, and stakeholders; AND 3) Participating in senior level organizational decision making related to general policy-setting matters and long-range program planning; AND 4) Perform supervisory functions over staff (e.g. develop performance standards, evaluate performance, recommend and approve awards for subordinate employees, etc.).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 1
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.
Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
As the newly appointed Program Manager in the Civil Works Integration Division or Military Integration Division, you're asked to provide guidance on a complex water resource or military construction project that has significant environmental and economic implications. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Seek guidance from your immediate supervisor before taking any action on the project.
 Review all relevant project documents, consult with subject matter experts, and prepare a comprehensive analysis with clear recommendations.
 Decline to offer guidance, stating that it's outside your area of expertise.
 Provide general advice based on your past experience without delving into the specific details of this project.
 Delegate the task to a trusted subordinate with expertise in water resource or military construction projects, while providing oversight and final review.


2.
During your review of ongoing projects, you identify a significant cost overrun in a major flood control or military construction project that hasn't been reported to the Division Senior Leadership. What is the most appropriate next step?

 Delay reporting the overrun until the next scheduled Project Review Board meeting to avoid causing unnecessary alarm.
 Address the issue directly with the project team and implement cost-cutting measures without involving the Division Senior Leadership.
 Gather detailed information about the overrun, its causes, and potential impacts, then prepare a information paper and briefing for the Division Senior Leadership with recommendations for corrective action.
 Immediately notify the Division Senior Leadership about the issue and schedule an emergency meeting to discuss the cost overrun.
 Instruct the project manager to prepare a report on the cost overrun and submit it to the Division within the next month.


3.
You've been informed of a scheduling conflict between two critical projects that will impact overall program delivery. The next PRB meeting is in three weeks. How should you proceed?

 Attempt to resolve the conflict independently and only report to the Division Senior Leadership if you can't find a solution.
 Work with project managers to mitigate the immediate impact of the conflict and prepare a detailed report for the next scheduled PRB meeting.
 Analyze the conflict, develop potential solutions, brief the Division Senior Leadership, and request an ad hoc meeting to address the issue promptly.
 Inform the Division Senior Leadership via email about the conflict and wait for their guidance on how to proceed.
 Postpone addressing the conflict until after the next Project Review Board meeting to have more time to gather information.


4.
You receive new guidance from Headquarters regarding sustainable engineering practices. Some district engineers express concerns about implementation challenges. How do you best address this situation?

 Review the guidance thoroughly, prepare a detailed implementation plan, and distribute it to the districts with a request for feedback.
 Disregard the guidance, believing that current practices are sufficient for your division's needs.
 Wait for more specific instructions from Headquarters before taking any action on the new guidance.
 Organize a meeting with district engineers to discuss the guidance, address concerns, and collaboratively develop an implementation strategy that aligns with Headquarters' vision.
 Forward the guidance to the districts with a memo explaining its importance and instructing them to implement it as soon as possible.


5.
A critical construction project is facing a 20% cost increase and a six-month delay. The project manager has submitted a change request for your review before it goes to the SES Director. What is your most appropriate course of action?

 Return the change request to the project manager, asking them to find ways to reduce the cost increase and shorten the delay before resubmitting.
 Thoroughly analyze the reasons for the changes, assess their impact on other projects, consider alternatives, and prepare a comprehensive recommendation for the SES Director that includes risk mitigation strategies.
 Approve the change request based on the project's critical nature and forward it to the SES Director with your endorsement.
 Reject the change request outright, insisting that the project must be completed within the original budget and timeline.
 Review the change request, request additional justification from the project manager, and prepare a summary of findings with your recommendation for the SES Director.


6.
You need to fill a key position in your division. After interviews, you have two strong candidates: one with extensive technical experience but limited leadership skills, and another with strong leadership abilities but less technical expertise. How do you proceed?

 Reopen the position for more applications, hoping to find a candidate who excels in both technical and leadership areas.
 Choose the candidate with more technical experience, assuming they can develop leadership skills on the job.
 Evaluate the specific needs of the position and the team, consider long-term development potential, and make a decision based on which candidate best complements the existing team and aligns with future goals.
 Conduct additional interviews with both candidates, focusing on areas where each candidate is weaker, to make a more informed decision.
 Defer the decision to your immediate supervisor, providing your assessment of both candidates' strengths and weaknesses.


7.
You notice that one of your high-performing team members has been working excessive hours and showing signs of burnout. Their project is critical and nearing completion. What is the most appropriate action to take?

 Recommend the employee for a spot award for their dedication and suggest they take some time off once the project is finished.
 Take no immediate action, assuming the situation will resolve itself once the critical project is completed.
 Temporarily reassign some of the employee's tasks to other team members and suggest they take some leave after the project is completed.
 Remind the employee about the importance of work-life balance and suggest they reduce their working hours immediately.
 Meet with the employee to discuss their workload, offer support, and collaboratively develop a plan that includes short-term assistance on the project and a strategy for better work-life balance moving forward.


8.
You're tasked with preparing a comprehensive budget request for the upcoming fiscal year. You notice that the data provided by various districts is inconsistent in format and detail. What is the most appropriate action to take?

 Review the inconsistent data, attempt to standardize it yourself, and follow up with individual districts for clarification where needed.
 Ask your team to standardize the data without involving the districts, using their best judgment to interpret unclear information.
 Develop a standardized template for data submission, clearly communicate the requirements to all districts, and set a deadline for resubmission of information in the new format.
 Exclude the inconsistent data from the budget request, focusing only on the information that is clearly presented.
 Use the data as provided, making note of the inconsistencies in your final report to Congress.


9.
While reviewing the transcript of a recent Congressional Committee hearing, you notice that a key statement made by your Division Commander has been transcribed incorrectly, potentially altering its meaning. What is the most appropriate course of action?

 Make a note of the incorrect statement but submit no corrections, assuming that minor transcription errors are common and acceptable.
 Carefully review the entire transcript, note all discrepancies, consult with the Division Commander to confirm the intended statement, and submit a comprehensive list of corrections to the appropriate Congressional office.
 Ignore the error, believing that it's not your responsibility to correct Congressional transcripts.
 Inform your Division Commander about the error and ask them to personally contact the Congressional office to correct the statement.
 Correct the key statement and any other obvious errors you find, then submit the corrections to the Congressional office.


10.
You receive a complex technical report from the Headquarters Engineering and Construction Directorate regarding a contentious project issue. The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works or Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installation, Environment, and Energy has requested a briefing on this issue next week. How do you proceed?

 Summarize the main points of the report and forward it directly to the Assistant Secretary, offering to discuss any questions they may have.
 Study the report in detail, prepare a briefing based on your understanding, and send it to the Headquarters Engineering and Construction Directorate for review before the meeting with the Assistant Secretary.
 Ask the Headquarters Engineering and Construction Directorate to brief the Assistant Secretary directly, as they are more familiar with the technical details.
 Thoroughly review the report, consult with relevant experts in your team, prepare a concise summary highlighting key points and potential solutions, and schedule a pre-briefing with the Headquarters Engineering and Construction Directorate to ensure alignment before meeting with the Assistant Secretary.
 Postpone the briefing, citing the need for more time to fully understand the complex technical issues presented in the report.


11.
While conducting an annual employee evaluation, you notice a discrepancy between the employee's self-assessment and the performance data you've collected throughout the year. How do you handle this situation?

 Disregard the employee's self-assessment entirely, basing your evaluation solely on your own observations and collected data.
 Note the discrepancies in your evaluation report, provide your assessment based on the performance data, and give the employee an opportunity to respond during the evaluation meeting.
 Accept the employee's self-assessment for areas where you lack concrete performance data, even if it doesn't align with your observations.
 Carefully review all performance data and the employee's self-assessment, prepare specific examples to discuss, and schedule a meeting with the employee to openly and constructively address the discrepancies.
 Focus your evaluation on the areas where your assessment and the employee's self-assessment align, briefly mentioning areas of discrepancy without going into detail.


12.
You're tasked with developing a multi-year strategic plan for Civil Works or Military programs in your division. Some stakeholders are pushing for immediate action on pressing issues, while others advocate for long-term sustainability. How do you approach this task?

 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of current issues and future trends, engage all stakeholders in collaborative planning sessions, and develop a balanced strategy that addresses immediate concerns while setting long-term sustainable goals.
 Focus primarily on long-term sustainability in the plan, including a section on how to manage current pressing issues within the broader strategy.
 Delegate the task to different team members - one group for immediate issues and another for long-term planning - without ensuring integration between the two.
 Prioritize immediate issues in the plan, with a brief outline of long-term goals to be developed in future years.
 Create separate short-term and long-term plans, ensuring that immediate actions align with long-term objectives, and present both to stakeholders for feedback.


13.
You've noticed inconsistencies in how different districts within your division are implementing the Project Delivery Business Process (PDBP). What is the most effective way to address this issue?
 Issue a detailed memo clarifying PDBP requirements and instructing all districts to align their processes accordingly.
 Conduct a division-wide assessment of PDBP implementation, identify best practices and challenges, then develop and implement a standardized approach with input from district representatives.
 Assign your deputy to review each district's PDBP implementation and report back with recommendations for improvements.
 Organize a workshop with project managers from all districts to discuss PDBP implementation, encourage knowledge sharing, and collaboratively develop a more consistent approach.
 Assume the inconsistencies are due to necessary adaptations to local conditions and take no action to standardize the process.


14.
You discover that three major projects in your division are facing delays due to similar issues. How do you address this situation to ensure timely resolution?

 Extend the project timelines to accommodate the delays, assuming that relevant issues are outside of your control.
 Direct each project manager to escalate the relevant issues to their respective local authorities and report back on progress weekly.
 Analyze the common issues, convene a team with representatives from each project and relevant agencies, develop a coordinated strategy to address the issues, and implement solutions across all affected projects.
 Reassign additional staff to the projects facing delays to help them work through the relevant issues more quickly.
 Schedule individual meetings with each project team to understand the specific challenges, then work with the relevant agencies to expedite the process for all three projects.


15.
You receive a new policy directive from Headquarters that significantly changes the approval process for certain types of projects. How do you ensure effective implementation across your division?

 Forward the directive to district leaders, asking them to develop their own implementation plans based on their specific needs and report back to you.
 Interpret the directive, draft procedural guidance, circulate it to district leaders for comment, revise as necessary, and then distribute the final guidance to all relevant staff.
 Implement the new policy in your immediate office and wait for districts to request guidance if they encounter issues.
 Thoroughly analyze the directive, consult with key stakeholders to understand potential impacts, develop clear procedural guidance with examples, conduct training sessions for district staff, and establish a feedback mechanism for continuous improvement.
 Summarize the key points of the new directive in a memo, distribute it to all districts, and instruct them to update their processes accordingly.


16.
You're reviewing responses prepared by your staff for a Congressional inquiry and notice that some answers lack sufficient detail while others contain potentially sensitive information. The submission deadline is tomorrow. What is the most appropriate action?

 Focus on editing the most critical responses yourself, delegate the revision of less sensitive items to trusted team members, and conduct a final review before submission.
 Submit the responses as they are to meet the deadline, but immediately begin working on supplementary information to send as a follow-up.
 Immediately gather your team to review and revise the responses, ensuring accuracy, appropriate level of detail, and sensitivity to confidential information. Work late if necessary to meet the deadline with high-quality submissions.
 Withhold any responses that seem problematic and only submit those you're confident about, planning to address the others if specifically asked.
 Request a short extension from the Congressional office, explaining that you need more time to ensure the accuracy and appropriateness of the responses.


17.
An ambitious employee asks for your guidance on their career development plan. They're interested in advancing to a senior position but lack some critical skills. How do you best assist them?

 Provide the employee with a list of available training courses and suggest they choose those that align with their career goals.
 Meet with the employee to discuss their career goals, assess their current skills, identify gaps, and collaboratively develop a comprehensive plan that includes short-term training, stretch assignments, mentoring, and long-term educational goals.
 Review the requirements for senior positions, identify the employee's skill gaps, and recommend specific training courses and developmental assignments to address these gaps over time.
 Encourage the employee to enroll in the division's leadership development program and suggest they seek a mentor in their desired senior role.
 Inform the employee that they should focus on excelling in their current role before considering advancement opportunities.


18.
You've received complaints about a team leader's communication style, which is causing conflict within their team. The leader is technically proficient but struggles with interpersonal skills. How do you address this situation?

 Send the team leader to a management training course focused on communication and conflict resolution, then follow up to assess improvement.
 Schedule a private meeting with the team leader to discuss the issue, provide specific examples of problematic behavior, listen to their perspective, and collaboratively develop an improvement plan that includes communication training and regular check-ins.
 Issue a formal warning to the team leader about their communication style and instruct them to improve their interpersonal skills immediately.
 Reassign the team leader to a role with less interpersonal interaction, focusing on their technical skills instead.
 Meet with the team leader to address the complaints, offer constructive feedback, and mandate their participation in a communication skills workshop.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙