Position Title
Electrician Supervisor-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-280510-12856894-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Jan 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a Electrician Supervisor, WS-2805-10 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select a response below based on your highest level of experience and/or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position.
 I am able to perform complex Electrician Supervisor tasks such as assigning work to subordinates, directing sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and providing technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Participating with employees in the development of performance plans and advising employees in advance of performance expectations. Maintaining and repairing installed electrical systems such as lighting fixtures and wiring, power fixtures and wiring, power sources, fire alarm systems, and/or services battery packs for emergency power systems. Determining training needs of subordinates based on current and future requirements and arrange for training accomplishment. Planning and laying out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. Ensuring that completed work adheres to the National Electrical Code with a high degree of independence.
 I am able to perform a full range of Electrician Supervisor tasks including assigning work to subordinates, directing sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and providing technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Participating with employees in the development of performance plans and advising employees in advance of performance expectations. Maintaining and repairing installed electrical systems such as lighting fixtures and wiring, power fixtures and wiring, power sources, fire alarm systems, and/or services battery packs for emergency power systems. Determining training needs of subordinates based on current and future requirements and arrange for training accomplishment. Planning and laying out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. Ensuring that completed work adheres to the National Electrical Code on my own initiative under limited supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I am able to perform common Electrician Supervisor tasks such as assigning work to subordinates, directing sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and providing technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Planning and laying out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. Ensuring that completed work adheres to the National Electrical Code I work under the close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Electrician who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I am able to perform simple Electrician Supervisor duties such as assigning work to subordinates, directing sequence of operations and methods to be employed. Planning and laying out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. Ensuring that completed work adheres to the National Electrical Code.
 I have no experience or training as an Electrician Supervisor.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙