Position Title
ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12972274-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electronic Integrated Systems Mechanic position with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electronic Integrated Systems Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex journey level tasks associated with the repair and maintenance of electronic and electrical equipment at an industrial facility. I am skilled in troubleshooting, repairing and maintaining electronic, pneumatic, hydraulic and electrical systems; I am skilled in installing, altering, repairing, troubleshooting and testing parts of electrical systems such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I have the ability to plan and lay out work and complete repairs and installations with little or no technical advice. I have the ability read and follow color codes, schematics, blueprints and wiring diagrams to install and operate electrical and electronic equipment into an existing system. I have the knowledge required to create preventative maintenance schedules and job plans for new and existing electronic and electrical systems and components. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of common journey level tasks associated with the repair and maintenance of electronic and electrical equipment. I am skilled in diagnosing, repairing and preventative maintenance of electronic and electrical equipment and systems. I am skilled in installing, altering, repairing, troubleshooting and testing parts of electrical systems such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I am skilled in using testing equipment and specialized tools used in the electronic/electrical trade to determine operational conditions and malfunctions. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform some journey level tasks associated with the repair and maintenance of electronic and electrical equipment. I can perform work such as diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing and maintaining a variety of electrical and electronic devices, equipment and components such as motors, generators, controllers, interior communication equipment, switchboards, transformers, panels, appliances, intercoms, telephone systems and equipment, and various warning, indicating, monitoring and detection systems (audio and visual). I have the ability read and follow color codes, schematics, blueprints and wiring diagrams to install and operate electronic and electrical equipment I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform common journey level tasks associated with the repair and maintenance of electronic and electrical equipment. I can perform work such as diagnosing, modifying, overhauling, repairing and maintaining a variety of electronic devices, equipment and components; and perform routine installation, maintenance, repair, modification, troubleshoot, load and test new and repair existing electrical lines, equipment circuits, systems, fixtures, and controls. I understand effects of malfunctions throughout interrelated units. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform tasks associated with the repair and maintenance to electronic and electrical equipment. I can perform work such as repairing, adjusting, and aligning integrated electronic systems. I can use hand and power tools and wide variety of test equipment (e.g., cutters and strippers, drills, soldering irons, test meters and lamps, etc.); and can check hydraulic and other fluid levels and replace as required. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙