Position Title
Training Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12964292-26-VB Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Training Specialist, GS-1712-09 position with the Salt Lake City, VAMC. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


INSTRUCTIONS: Human Resources will evaluate your resume, supporting documentation, and the responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications required for this position. RESUME REMINDER - IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. In your resume you will need to address the general and specialized experience listed below. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position. Resume should include for example: contact information; descriptions of jobs held, including the name and address of employer, job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date (month/year) of employment, average hours worked per week if part-time, and supervisor's name and phone number; education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion.


1.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT: The Training Specialist, GS-1712-09 does require an Individual Occupation Requirement that will need to be met. Your resume will be reviewed in regards to the Individual Occupational requirement to ensure that the Individual Occupational Requirement is met. Please understand that the Individual Occupational Requirement is required IN ADDITION to the required Specialized Experience.

Education: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- education or a subject area related to the position to be filled.
OR,
Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Teaching or instructing in an adult education program, secondary school, college, military installation, or industrial establishment in the appropriate field(s).
Supervising or administering a training program.
Development or review of training/course materials, aids, devices, etc., and evaluation of training results.
Work in the occupation or subject-matter field of the position to be filled that required training or instructing others on a regular basis.
 Yes, I meet the Individual Occupational Requirement, and understand all information provided is subject to verification.
 No, I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement, and understand that I will be removed from consideration.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION REQUIREMENT GS-09: - Applicants must have 52 weeks (1-year) of specialized experience the next lower grade level GS-07, in the Federal service. Applicant can additionally qualify via education as a substitution to meet Specialized Experience Requirement. Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that are typically in or related to the position to be filled. Specialized Experience is defined as; Specialized knowledge of and skill in performing technical aspects of the programs, such as scheduling, electronic programs, medical software, etc. in order to plan, organize and facilitate training for all program staff. Knowledge of program objectives, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements in order to effectively plan, direct and administer the training program for the service, including coordinating with the facility Education Department, other agency program offices, and outside organizations. Knowledge of an extensive body of rules, procedures, and/or operations in training to perform a wide variety of interrelated of nonstandard procedural assignments and to resolve a wide range of problems. Posses the ability to design, evaluate, and develop programs, training plans, course methods, materials and aids, and training records. Possess skills in oral and written communication with a variety of people from different backgrounds and different levels of understanding. This may include clerical, technical, administrative, and professional (medical and non-medical) people at all levels. Knowledge and skill in the use of computer equipment with a wide variety of software such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access, Internet and several databases. Knowledge of an extensive body of rules and regulations governing confidentiality, including but not limited to the Privacy Act, Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPAA), the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and 38 USC 7332.

OR,

Education: master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related

OR,

Combining Education and Experience: Combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements for the grade levels specified in the table, and may be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-11. (When crediting education that requires specific course work, prorate the number of hours of related courses required as a proportion of the total education to be used.)

 Yes, I possess 52-weeks (1-year) of Specialized Experience at the next lower grade level (GS-7). Specialized Experience is defined as; Specialized knowledge of and skill in performing technical aspects of the programs, such as scheduling, electronic programs, medical software, etc. in order to plan, organize and facilitate training for all program staff.? Knowledge of program objectives, policies, procedures, and regulatory requirements in order to effectively plan, direct and administer the training program for the service, including coordinating with the facility Education Department, other agency program offices, and outside organizations.? Knowledge of an extensive body of rules, procedures, and/or operations in training to perform a wide variety of interrelated of nonstandard procedural assignments and to resolve a wide range of problems.? Posses the ability to design, evaluate, and develop programs, training plans, course methods, materials and aids, and training records. Possess skills in oral and written communication with a variety of people from different backgrounds and different levels of understanding.? This may include clerical, technical, administrative, and professional (medical and non-medical) people at all levels.? Knowledge and skill in the use of computer equipment with a wide variety of software such as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Outlook, Access, Internet and several databases.? Knowledge of an extensive body of rules and regulations governing confidentiality, including but not limited to the Privacy Act, Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPAA), the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), and 38 USC 7332.
 Yes, I possess a Master's or equivalent graduate degree OR, 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR LL.B. or J.D., if related
 Yes, I posses a combination of Specialized Experience and Education that qualifies me for the above position.
 No, I do not posses the required Specialized Experience or Education needed to qualify for the above position and understand I will be removed from consideration.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙