Position Title
Recreation Aide ( Teen Employment Program)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12957583 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Pleased answer the following questions.


1.
Are you a dependent ages 14-18 years of age of either an Active duty service member or a DoD civilian (this does not include contractors) on official orders to Rota? MUST PROVIDE A COPY OF THE OFFICIAL PCS ORDERS
 I am a listed dependent ages 14-18 years of age of an Active Duty Service Member on official orders to Rota
 I am a listed dependent ages 14-18 years of age of a DoD Civilian ( this is does not include contractors) on official orders to Rota
 None of the above apply


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you 14-18 years of age?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙