Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (FAR)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
341-2026-JS-13003902-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
10


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Salt Lake City Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Salt Lake City VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA).


2.
GS-7 Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-7 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-5 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


3.
GS-09. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-9 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-7 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


4.
GS-10. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-10 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-9 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


Specialized Experience: This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


5.
To qualify at the GS-7 grade, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as work that involves: using various computer systems for data entry and maintaining/monitoring case files; reviewing documents submitted by others for completeness, accuracy, and validity; communicating with customers of varying and diverse backgrounds. Or education substitution.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have completed one full year of graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work. Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. (For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov) Or, I have earned a Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher).
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
To qualify at the GS-9 grade, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as work that involves: using various computer systems for data entry and maintaining/monitoring case files; preparing various types of written correspondence; gathering and analyzing evidence in order to make sound recommendations and/or referrals; AND communicating with customers of varying and diverse backgrounds.

OR
Education substitution
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a master’s or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


7.
To qualify at the GS-10 grade, To qualify, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.  Specialized experience is defined as experience: using various computer systems for data entry and maintaining/monitoring case files; preparing various types of written correspondence; gathering and analyzing evidence in order to make sound recommendations and/or referrals; AND, reviewing financial, benefit, or legal documents and statements to identify any misrepresentation, fraud or illegal activity.

OR
Education substitution
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have completed two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree (Ph.D.) or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and doctorate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentionally false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.


8.
Please certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙