Position Title
Information Technology Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR27-006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Qustions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
Consistent with your oath of office, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Information Technology (Systems Administration) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Choose the stetment that best describe your work experience and /or education as it relates to this position.  This experiences must be documented in your resume.

 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts/degree)
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience (equivalent to NF-04/GS-09). Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience, described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts/degree)
 None of the statements above apply to me


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have previous or current working experience within Information Technology (IT) Management Series 2210?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select all of the following technologies that you have at least 1 year of professional experience supporting. Note: Your resume must support your selections
 A. Citrix
 B. CYMS
 C. Database Principles
 D. HelpDesk / Customer Support
 E. IT Security Principles
 F. Kronos
 G. PCI Compliance Principles
 H. Qubica Conqueror Bowling Software
 I. SAP
 J. RecTrac / GolfTrac
 K. Windows 11
 L. Wired Network Security
 M. Wireless Network Security
 N. Troubleshooting and Data Analysis
 O. None of these apply to me


4.
Does your resume demonstrate experience drafting Standard Operating Procedures (aka user guides, desk guides, ect.) for all competency level audiences?
 My resume demonstrates at least 3 years of experience in the above with a DoN employer
 My resume demonstrates at least 3 years of experience in the above with a non-government employer
 I have no experience in drafting Standard Operating Procedures


5.
Have you submitted ALL required forms/transcript/certification  listed in the vacancy announcement? By checking yes, I certify that I have submitted ALL required forms I understand failure to do so will prevent my application from being considered further.
 Yes. I have uploaded all of the required documents listed in the vacancy announcement
 No. I have not uploaded all of the required documents listed in the vacancy announcement. By not doing so, I understand my application will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙