Position Title
Program Analyst (Cyber)
Agency
Joint Activities
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-13068047-CES
Open Period
Oct 05, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 9
 11
 12
KB 651990 JA Cyber Program Analyst 8047 DEU
.
Thank you for your interest in a Program Analyst (Cyber) GG-0301-09/11/12 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Analyst (Cyber) at the GG-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by: 1. Assisting with budget execution and financial management activities, 2. Maintaining records of funds received, 3. Tracking obligations and expenditures through automated financial systems; and 4. Reviewing financial records and supporting documentation for accuracy.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as business administration, statistics, computer science, software engineering, etc. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Analyst (Cyber) at the GG-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by: 1. Performing budget and program analysis to support the execution and control of organizational funds, 2. Maintaining records of funds received or expended; 3. Tracking resource utilization across multiple funding lines, and 4. Reviewing and processing funding requests.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as business administration, statistics, computer science, software engineering, etc. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Analyst (Cyber) at the GG-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have at least one year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by : 1. Performing budget and program analysis for complex organizations, 2. Developing and managing systems to monitor funds received, obligated, and/or expended, 3. Analyzing financial trends and forecasting funding requirements, 4. Advising leadership on the financial impact of program changes and proper fund utilization, and 5. Preparing and presenting detailed financial reports and briefings.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
