Position Title
Election Technology Specialist
Agency
Election Assistance Commission
Announcement Number
EAC-26-EXE-12920981HH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


Assessment 1
For item 1-2 & 5-7, please read the following statements carefully. Your response to the following question will determine whether you will be eligible for this position or not. If you respond "No" to any question in this section, you will not be eligible for consideration for this position.


1.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire will be true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I provide may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire will be true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


2.
Are you willing to submit to an initial and periodic background investigation, including a fingerprint check and a credit check?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to complete an annual financial disclosure?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to serve an initial and possible subsequent trial period?
 Yes
 No


For AD-0301-00: Do you possess at least one year of specialized experience? Specialized experience is defined as experience that is in or directly related to the line of work of this position and has equipped you with the knowledge and competencies to successfully perform the duties of this position. More specifically, this requirement involves experience in performing ALL the following duties (i.e., you must be able to respond 'Yes' to ALL statements below and must be supported in resume).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
I have at least one year of experience conducting testing and / or evaluation of complex systems in accordance with technical standards or regulatory requirements.
 Yes
 No


6.
I have at least one year of experience interpreting, applying, or reviewing technical documentation to assess compliance.
 Yes
 No


7.
I have at least one year of experience coordinating with multidisciplinary stakeholders to prepare technical reports or briefings for technical and non-technical audiences.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙