Position Title
Supervisory Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12965421-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


7.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bossier City, LA
 B. Fort Polk, LA
 C. Edinburg, TX
 D. Red River Army Depot, TX
 E. San Antonio, TX


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0808 - Architecture
 B. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 C. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 D. 0850 - Electrical Engineering
 E. 0893 - Chemical Engineering


3.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Interdisciplinary (Architect) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect?s office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisor Interdisciplinary (Engineering) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Supervisory Interdisciplinary work at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service performing the following duties: 1) Inspecting civil and military construction projects to ensure adherence to contract plans and specifications; AND 2) Providing construction management services to include reviewing project progress, recommending alternative construction methods and negotiating critical issues to reach a solution; AND 3) Reviewing construction contracts to recommend changes and negotiate contract modifications.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
As a Technical Section Chief Engineer, you are overseeing a construction project. A staff supervisor reports that the field activities are not aligning with the technical specifications. What is your best course of action?
 Request detailed information about the discrepancies from the staff supervisor, then develop and implement a corrective action plan on your own.
 Ignore the report and assume the discrepancies will resolve themselves without intervention.
 Jointly analyze the situation, develop a comprehensive corrective action plan, and present it to the contractor for clarification and implement a proper course of action.
 Review the technical specifications yourself, identify potential solutions, and discuss your findings with the staff supervisor to refine the approach.
 Ask the staff supervisor to provide a corrective action plan without offering your own analysis or input.


2.
During a routine inspection, you notice that the construction quality is below the expected standards. What should you do?
 Inform your supervisor about the issues but take no further action.
 Document the deficiencies and immediately notify the contractor to rectify the issues before proceeding.
 Discuss the quality concerns with your team and develop a plan to address them with the contractor.
 Approve the work as is to avoid delaying the project timeline.
 Allow the construction to continue while you gather more information about the quality issues.


3.
The contractor is behind schedule on a major construction project. What is your best approach to get back on track?
 Blame the contractor for the delays without discussing the issues with them.
 Ignore the delays and focus on other projects.
 Analyze the current progress, identify bottlenecks, and work with the contractor to adjust the schedule and resources.
 Request the contractor to provide a recovery schedule and plan to address the delays.
 Extend the project deadline and inform stakeholders of the new timeline.


4.
During the design phase of a project, you realize that some specifications are unclear. What should you do?
 Document the unclear specifications and wait for feedback from the contractor before taking action.
 Proceed with the current specifications and address any issues later during construction.
 Change the specifications unilaterally without consulting the design team.
 Assume the specifications are correct and move forward without clarification.
 Document the unclear specifications, consult with the design team to clarify them, and ensure they are well-documented before proceeding.


5.
A contractor submits an unsolicited change proposal that seems excessive. How do you handle this?
 Review the proposal thoroughly, compare it with the original contract, and discuss your findings with the contractor.
 Ignore the proposal and hope the contractor withdraws it.
 Reject the proposal outright without further discussion.
 Request additional documentation from the contractor to justify the proposed changes.
 Consult with your team to evaluate the proposal's impact on cost, schedule, and quality before responding.


6.
You identify a potential need for a critical contract modification due to unforeseen circumstances. What is your best course of action?
 Wait until the next scheduled project meeting to bring up the modification for discussion.
 Make the modification without formal approval to expedite the process.
 Immediately discuss the potential modification with your team and the contractor, assessing its impact on quality, cost, and schedule before preparing a formal recommendation.
 Prepare a detailed recommendation for the modification, including justifications and impact analysis, and submit it for approval after initial discussions.
 Consult with the contractor to gather more information about the unforeseen circumstances and potential solutions before involving your team.


7.
You are reviewing a contract modification and notice it does not comply with regulations. What should you do?
 Alter the modification to make it compliant without consulting the preparer.
 Ignore the compliance issues and approve the modification as is.
 Discuss the compliance issues with your supervisor before taking action.
 Return the modification to the preparer with specific feedback on the compliance issues that need to be addressed.
 Approve the modification but note the compliance issues for future reference.


8.
During negotiations with a contractor, they become defensive about proposed changes. How do you respond?
 Restate your position, minimize clarification on their objections, and suggest moving forward quickly to maintain progress.
 Acknowledge their concerns, suggest taking a break to allow emotions to settle, and propose revisiting the discussion later with a focus on finding a mutually beneficial solution.
 Stand firm on your position and insist on the changes without further discussion.
 Listen carefully to their perspective, reassess your position, and work collaboratively to find a compromise that addresses both parties' concerns.
 Dismiss their concerns and continue with your demands.


9.
You are tasked with presenting the construction program to stakeholders. What is your best approach?
 Avoid discussing challenges to maintain a positive image.
 Provide a brief overview and leave time for questions.
 Skip the presentation and send a report instead.
 Prepare a comprehensive presentation highlighting successes, challenges, and future plans, and engage stakeholders in discussion.
 Focus solely on the successes to create a positive impression.


10.
You are planning safety inspections and need to allocate personnel. What is your best strategy?
 Delegate the task to a junior employee without providing guidance.
 Ignore the need for inspections to save time.
 Assign personnel randomly to ensure everyone gets a chance to participate.
 Assess the project needs and assign personnel based on their expertise and availability to ensure thorough inspections.
 Use the same personnel as last time, assuming they will be familiar with the process.


11.
Your team is struggling to meet project deadlines. What is your best course of action?
 Increase pressure on the team to work faster without addressing the underlying issues.
 Reassign tasks to different team members to balance the workload.
 Blame the team for the delays without offering support.
 Allow the team to continue without intervention, hoping they will improve.
 Hold a team meeting to identify obstacles and collaboratively develop a plan to improve performance.


12.
You need to communicate a critical deadline to your team. How do you approach this?
 Clearly outline the deadline, the importance of the task, and offer support to help them meet it.
 Wait until the last minute to inform the team about the deadline.
 Ignore the deadline and focus on other priorities.
 Inform the team of the deadline but provide no additional context or support.
 Send an email with the deadline and assume they will understand its importance.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙