Position Title
Regional Government Liaison Officer
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13060965-26-MT Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


Additional Applicant Information
1.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-12, GG-11, or N/A for not applicable).


2.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or N/A for not applicable).


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


4.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all information submitted with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (including degrees and accomplishments)? Do you understand that the information you provide may be investigated, and that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring you or for termination after you begin work? Additionally, do you acknowledge that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes, I certify and acknowledge the above statements.
 No, I do not certify or acknowledge the above statements.


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this engineering position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience qualifying for this position. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. 2. Written Test -- I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in answer choice A. or 4. Related curriculum -- I completed curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field AND I have at least one year of professional engineering experience.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your education and experience to perform duties in the 1301 Physical Science series.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, and electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes education equivalent to one of the majors shown in A above that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, plus appropriate experience, or additional education.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates knowledge of NRC programs, policies and authorities and a working knowledge of and familiarity with organizational structures, operating procedures and staff throughout the agency related to regulatory activities.  In addition, candidates must have a thorough knowledge of and expertise in the principles, practices and theories involved in the design, functions and safety considerations relating to nuclear facilities; safe and effective use of radiological materials and radiological emergency response planning.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙