Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist - Institutional (Recreation Supervisor)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
MXR-26-13055826 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read the following question before selecting a response. This question will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Any error in your response will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your resume must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide any requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Applicants MUST meet one of the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirements for this position. In the event you do not meet either requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.

A) Education:
Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education.

OR

B) Experience:

Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
Planning, establishing, or evaluating a recreational curriculum for junior college or higher academic levels.
Instructing in the principles and techniques of recreational program planning and management.
Serving in a leadership role in the programs and activities of local, regional, and/or national recreational organizations.


Do you meet any of the minimum qualification requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in A.
 Yes, I meet the minimum qualification requirement described in B.
 No, I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described in A, or B.


NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the minumum requirement, you also must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-09 grade level, or meet the education requirements as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT.

Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts to receive consideration. Transcripts MUST be uploaded and electronically linked from USAJOBS at the time you apply and MUST include identifying information to include School Name, Student Name, Degree and Date Awarded (if applicable).


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.


1.
You are the Recreation Supervisor at a federal correctional institution with 1,200 inmates. Your annual recreation budget has been reduced by 15% due to institutional funding constraints. At the same time, you have two staff members on extended medical leave, and you've received notice that the facility will host a regional softball tournament in six weeks that requires coordination with outside teams and correctional services. The Warden has requested a budget report showing how you plan to maintain program effectiveness while staying within the reduced budget, and your quarterly equipment maintenance is also due this month.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate resource management approach in this situation?

 Focus primarily on gathering documentation about equipment usage and preparing a basic schedule for the softball tournament. Notify your supervisor about the budget reduction and staff shortage, and wait for guidance on how to proceed with the quarterly maintenance and tournament planning.
 Track your current expenditures to ensure you maintain positive balances within the reduced budget. Contact vendors to verify equipment maintenance schedules and ensure facilities are available for the tournament. Volunteer to take on additional duties to cover for absent staff members, prioritize tasks based on immediate needs, and respond to the Warden's request within the required timeframe.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis comparing multiple vendors for cost and quality before making equipment purchases. Prepare a detailed report for the Warden recommending additional funding or temporary positions needed to manage the staff shortage. Coordinate the multi-team softball tournament by working with correctional services and external teams, adjusting priorities to meet the budget report deadline while maintaining your individual workload and keeping all recreation programs running during the staff shortage period.
 Review all vendor contracts and make recommendations for cost savings. Schedule the softball tournament using established procedures and assign available staff to cover essential programs. Request an extension on the budget report deadline due to the staff shortage.
 None of the above.


2.
You are managing a recreation program at a correctional facility where tensions have escalated due to a recent policy change limiting gym access hours. During the implementation of a new comprehensive wellness program, you encounter a group of 15 inmates who refuse to participate and are becoming verbally confrontational. You need to assign them to appropriate activity groups by this afternoon to meet the program launch deadline. Additionally, you have a scheduled interdepartmental meeting in one hour with custody, medical, and administrative staff to finalize the program details, and you've been asked to represent your department at an upcoming regional Bureau conference on innovative recreation programming. A vendor has also called regarding equipment delays that could impact the program launch.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate oral communication approach in this situation?

 Coordinate the immediate assignment of activity schedules to the participating inmates. Attend the departmental meeting and provide updates on the recreation program status. Contact the vendor to obtain information about the equipment delay and relay your findings to your supervisor for their decision on how to proceed.
 Participate in the departmental meeting to exchange information about the recreation program. Schedule a follow-up meeting with the resistant inmates after consulting with your supervisor. Obtain information from the vendor about alternative equipment options and present the findings to your supervisor. Confirm your attendance at the regional conference.
 Under the time constraint of the program launch deadline, use persuasive communication to successfully arrange the comprehensive wellness program by managing the uncooperative inmates and assigning them to appropriate groups. Participate actively in the interdepartmental staff meeting to facilitate communication among all involved parties and resolve the policy and equipment issues. Represent your department at the regional Bureau conference. Contact and negotiate with the vendor to obtain required information and resolve the equipment delay issue to keep the program on schedule.
 Document the inmates' refusal to participate and forward the issue to custody staff for resolution. Present the equipment delay information at the interdepartmental meeting and ask for input from other departments. Accept the invitation to attend the regional conference and prepare a presentation on your current programs.
 None of the above.


3.
You have been assigned to oversee the recreation program at a medium-security correctional facility that currently offers only basic basketball and weightlifting activities three times per week. The institution's population has grown from 800 to 1,400 inmates over the past year, representing diverse age groups (18-65+) and varying fitness levels. Medical staff has reported increasing health issues related to sedentary lifestyles and has requested enhanced wellness programming. You have access to a large multipurpose room, outdoor field space, and a budget for equipment and materials. The Warden has tasked you with significantly improving the recreation program to address the health concerns and accommodate the increased population within the next 90 days.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate application of sports/fitness program knowledge in this situation?

 Review established recreation policies and procedures to coordinate additional basketball and weightlifting tournaments. Participate in available coaching clinics or physical activities seminars to enhance your knowledge. Serve as an official for the expanded team sporting events to ensure proper rule enforcement across the larger inmate population.
 Work with medical staff to design enhanced group fitness classes that address the reported health issues. Supervise the implementation of a recreational sports league with improved scheduling to accommodate more participants. Propose new fitness-based activities to your supervisor, such as modified workout routines for different age groups, which results in newly established wellness guidelines being implemented.
 Develop, direct, and implement a comprehensive full-scale recreation program that includes structured physical fitness classes such as aerobics, calisthenics, and yoga to address the sedentary lifestyle concerns. Effectively direct and manage multiple sports programs and leagues with complex scheduling systems to accommodate 1,400 inmates of varying ages and abilities. Establish a complete intramural program structure that addresses all aspects of facility maintenance, league operations, and participant drafting across the diverse population. Utilize your credentials as a personal trainer or athletic instructor to design appropriate programming for the various fitness levels and age groups.
 Expand the current basketball and weightlifting schedules to offer daily sessions instead of three times weekly. Create a rotation system to accommodate more inmates in the existing activities. Request additional recreation staff to help manage the increased participation and purchase additional equipment for the current programs.
 None of the above.


4.
You are the Recreation Supervisor overseeing a team of four Recreation Specialists at a federal correctional institution. Over the past six months, you've noticed that two of your specialists have expressed interest in promotional opportunities but are unsure how to prepare. One specialist has been struggling with time management and program organization, affecting the quality of weekend recreation activities. Your team recently received feedback from the Associate Warden suggesting that your department's incident reporting procedures need improvement. Additionally, one of your specialists is newly hired and recently asked you about continuing education opportunities in therapeutic recreation. The institution is implementing a new recreation management software system next quarter, and your staff will need training.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?

 Observe how effective supervisors in other departments lead their teams and learn from their methods. Identify upcoming training opportunities related to the new software system and therapeutic recreation, then notify your staff via email about these opportunities. Assist the specialists interested in promotion by helping them complete their individual training needs assessments. Serve as a mentor to the newly hired specialist by meeting with them regularly during their first 90 days.
 Organize your team to work on improving the incident reporting procedures as requested by the Associate Warden. Participate as an active member of the team effort, contributing ideas that result in an improved recreation process being implemented. Make yourself available when staff members seek advice about educational programs or promotion possibilities, providing guidance based on your experience. Assist in developing and presenting a training session on the new software system for the professional growth of your team.
 Lead your team in a comprehensive initiative to improve both the incident reporting procedures and the weekend recreation program operations. Provide individualized counseling to the two specialists interested in promotion, giving them specific information about educational requirements and strategies for competitive advancement. Work directly with the specialist struggling with time management by providing targeted information and coaching on organizational techniques. Develop and personally facilitate an internal training session on the new recreation management software that addresses your team's professional growth and development needs. Create a structured professional development plan for the newly hired specialist.
 Address the Associate Warden's feedback by assigning the most experienced specialist to revise the incident reporting procedures. Provide the newly hired specialist with information about the agency's training catalog and promotional requirements. Schedule a team meeting to discuss the new software implementation and delegate training responsibilities to team members based on their technical skills.
 None of the above.


5.
You are the Recreation Supervisor at a federal correctional facility. The Regional Office has conducted an Operational Review of your recreation program and identified three areas requiring corrective action related to equipment inventory tracking, program documentation, and inmate participation records. You have 30 days to submit a written response addressing each finding and providing an action plan. Additionally, the Health Services Administrator has sent a formal inquiry requesting detailed information about your wellness program outcomes for the past fiscal year to support their accreditation review. You've also received two recreation-related inmate requests (Cop-Outs) that require written responses: one requesting a new hobby-craft activity and another questioning why an inmate was removed from the basketball league. Your staff need to be informed about upcoming mandatory training on the new recreation management software system.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate written communication approach in this situation?

 Prepare an incident report documenting the circumstances of the inmate's removal from the basketball league. Respond to the Cop-Out requesting the hobby-craft activity by explaining current program limitations. Prepare justification documentation for the equipment inventory issues identified in the review. Draft a memorandum to your staff about the mandatory training dates and requirements.
 Prepare internal memorandums responding to both inmate Cop-Outs with clear explanations. Create a flyer for staff advertising the upcoming mandatory training on the new software system and post it in the recreation office. Assist your supervisor in documenting the Operational Review audit findings by organizing the relevant program data into a draft action plan that identifies areas for improvement and potential corrective actions.
 Prepare comprehensive written responses to the Regional Office's Operational Review addressing each of the three findings with detailed corrective action plans, timelines, and accountability measures. Prepare a formal written response to the Health Services Administrator's inquiry, providing detailed wellness program outcome data, participation statistics, and analysis of program effectiveness for the accreditation review. Write detailed responses to both inmate Cop-Outs explaining the decisions with supporting policy references. Draft and distribute a memorandum to staff outlining the training requirements, schedule, and expectations. Prepare descriptive performance log entries documenting your staff's involvement in the review response.
 Respond to the Health Services inquiry by compiling existing wellness program reports and forwarding them with a brief cover memo. Draft a response to the Regional Office addressing the most critical finding from the Operational Review. Prepare brief written responses to the inmate Cop-Outs. Send an email to staff about the upcoming training with the basic details.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙