Position Title
Electrician Leader
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
IPA1-26-12952609-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 40lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


5.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Electrician Leader position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electrician Leader, WL-2805-10 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have leader experience where I have organized assignments for subordinates where judgment as to individual abilities is involved; able to recommend selection of employees; able to evaluate work performance of subordinates; able to estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to prepare production records, work records, and reports; able to train others in new duties; able to explain manuals and work procedures; able to motivate employees to work efficiently and productively; and able to determine work procedures.
 I have some leader experience where I developed plans and organized work for a group of employees; I am able to give direction to subordinates; able to plan and organize work for a crew where judgment involves considering individual abilities. I have given guidance to employees engaged in electrical system installation, maintenance and repair work.
 I have journeyman level experience where engaged in a full range of electrical maintenance and repair work (i.e., installed, modified, repaired, maintained, troubleshot, tested, and loaded new and existing electrical lines, circuits, systems, and associated fixtures, controls, and equipment). I have read and interpreted building plans, electrical drawings, electrical wiring diagrams and schematics. I have planned and laid out work, tracing hard-to-locate defects or problems and completing repairs and installations.
 I have very limited experience acting in a leader capacity where I have been responsible for assigning work to be accomplished.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙