Position Title
Insurance Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
310-26-KP-12990416-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 30, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the area of consideration. This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Philadelphia, PA Insurance Service employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible..


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for this position.
 I am a current, permanent Philadelphia Insurance Service employee or current/former VA employees who is CTAP eligible.
 I am not a current, permanent Philadelphia Insurance Service employee or current/former VA employees who is CTAP eligible.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-09 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level of this position and must have held grade GS-11 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-12 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


2.
GS-11: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level (or above). Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting time-in-grade requirements.


3.
GS-12: At this grade, applicants must have one year time-in-grade at the GS-11 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least one year of time-in-grade at the GS-11 level (or above). Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting time-in-grade requirements.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: This section includes questions about the Specialized Experience for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the Specialized Experience for an Insurance Specialist, GS-0301-11, and GS-0301-12. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, Specialized Experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Read all responses before making your selection. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. From the responses below, select ONE response that best describes how you met the basic requirements for this position. Note: Experience MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


4.
From the choices below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for an Insurance Specialist at the GS-11 level.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-09, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) developing written analyses, drafting recommendation papers for leadership, preparing policy options, or producing other high impact written products requiring clarity, accuracy, and interpretation of complex statutory, regulatory, or operational issues; (2) coordinating projects, managing timelines, facilitating workgroups, or developing project documentation such as plans, milestones, and progress reports.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have completed 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., IF RELATED. Note: A copy of your transcripts from an accredited college or university must be submitted at the time of application.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in "A" and I have less than the full amount of education described in "B", but I have a combination of the type of education described in "A" and the kind of experience described in "B." To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify at the GS-11. Note: A copy of your transcripts from an accredited college or university must be submitted at the time of application.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in any of the above statements. Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting the specialized experience requirements.


5.
From the choices below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience and/or education that qualifies you for an Insurance Specialist at the GS-12 level.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of Specialized Experience which is equivalent to the next lower grade GS-11, in the normal line of progression for the position. Specialized experience is defined as: (1) substantial responsibility for developing written analyses, drafting recommendation papers for leadership, preparing policy options, or producing other high impact written products requiring clarity, accuracy, and interpretation of complex statutory, regulatory, or operational issues; (2) coordinating multifaceted projects, managing timelines, facilitating cross functional workgroups, or developing project documentation such as plans, milestones, and progress reports.
 I do not have the specialized experience described above. Note: You will be removed from consideration for not meeting the specialized experience requirements.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on your resume, narratives, and other relevant documents you submit AND through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information is grounds for non-selection and/or termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙