Position Title
SUPERVISORY AIRCRAFT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-12989149-AR-26-189 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Areas of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with membership in the Tennessee Army National Guard?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3). For Lateral requests blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current member of the Tennessee Army National Guard?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing and eligible to become a member of the Tennessee Army National Guard?

To become a member:
Be between the ages of 17 and 35
Be a U.S. citizen or a legal permanent resident
Have a high school diploma or a GED certificate (or be a high school senior or junior)
Achieve a minimum score on the ASVAB test
Meet medical, physical and moral requirements
Pass a background check

**Criteria subject to change.

DD 214 will need to be submitted to prove Prior Service time.

To enquire about current membership requirements and to see if you are eligible to become a member of the TN Army or Air National Guard, contact their recruiting office directly at:

Army National Guard (1-800-GO-GUARD)

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts; experience piloting or co-piloting aircraft to carry out various operational programs and functions of the Army and Air National Guard; experience providing ground and flight instruction and evaluation in aircraft piloting; experience with planning, analyzing, or administering agency specific aviation programs, where the work requires primarily the application of pilot knowledge and skills?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have 36 months specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for entry appointments to GS-2181-12 or GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Warrant Officer positions?

Qualification competencies are determined by three factors: The aircraft operated; the nature and purpose of assignments; and, the degree of hazard. For Army National Guard positions, must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, in military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in Air National Guard Wing/ Operations Groups. To qualify, the applicant must have at least two years specialized competencies in operating a specific main-frame military aircraft, mission planning, and mission preparation.  Experienced in reviewing and analyzing mission tasking, intelligence, and weather information.  Experienced in filing flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, and equipment assessments. Experienced in performing or supervising work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling, search and rescue operations or surveillance and reconnaissance.  Competent in conducting or supervising the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks.  Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders.  Knowledge is required in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, mission tactics, and operating procedures. Experienced in the unit flying, explosive, and ground safety programs in accordance with Department of Defense, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, and/or Occupational Safety and Health Administration policies, regulations, and directives.
 Yes
 No


3.
What is your philosophy on creating a positive and effective learning environment for student pilots?


3a.
What would be your priorities?


4.
Describe the most complex aircraft you have been responsible for as a pilot or instructor.


4a.
What specific systems or characteristics demanded the most attention and expertise?


5.
Describe a time you had to manage a flight operation involving multiple, dissimilar aircraft types?


5a.
How did you coordinate the logistics, training, and operational standards to ensure a safe and effective mission?


6.
How do you prioritize and delegate tasks to ensure the timely and successful completion of operational and training objectives?


6a.
Give an example.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙