Position Title
Product Owner
Agency
Railroad Retirement Board
Announcement Number
260017BP-13005221-YA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a spouse of an Armed Forces service member who is appointable under Non-Competitive EO 13832 Enhancing Noncompetitive Civil Service Appointments of Military Spouses?

You are eligible if you:
Are married to an active duty service member who is ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days OR
Are the spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service connected injury OR
Are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while on active duty.
You are required to support your claim with the documents below:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (e.g., marriage certificate).

AND
If you are married to an active duty service member, documentation must include current military orders (e.g., statement of service) to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days
OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation must include service member's DD-214 and 100% service disability (e.g., VA Letter)
OR
If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation must include verification of service member's death while on active duty (e.g., DD-1300).

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment if eligible based on 100% disability due to service or as an un-remarried widow/widower of a service member killed while on active duty.

For more information please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 




 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current RRB employee who meets the definition of "displaced" or "surplus" and have received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


4.
Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:
complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND,
receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND,
return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?
For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
Current RRB employee, Transfer or Reinstatement eligibles: current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently employed as a federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

-OR-

Were you formerly employed as a federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or have you obtained career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have you held the same grade as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


7.
Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?

-OR-

Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?

-OR-

Are you a current or former limited non-career appointee with the Foreign Service and have at least 48 months of continuous service, a performance rating of satisfactory or better, and if a former employee, no more than a one year break in service since your qualifying appointment?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?
If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?
-OR-
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?
-OR-
Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?
-OR-
Are you a Peace Corps volunteer who was granted Close of Service (COS) status from January 1, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic?
If yes, submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility.
If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management?

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems.

-OR-

Are you a current:
Postal Career Service Employee;
Postal Rate Commission Employee;
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?
For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


12.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 AB. Mesa, AZ
 AE. Little Rock, AR
 AF. Covina, CA
 AG. Oakland, CA
 AH. Roseville, CA
 AI. Denver, CO
 AJ. Washington, DC
 AK. Jacksonville, FL
 AL. Tampa, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Chicago, IL
 AO. Decatur, IL
 AP. Joliet, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Des Moines, IA
 AS. Kansas City, KS
 AT. Wichita, KS
 AU. Louisville, KY
 AV. New Orleans, LA
 AW. Baltimore, MD
 AX. Boston, MA
 AY. Detroit, MI
 AZ. Duluth, MN
 BA. Saint Paul, MN
 BB. Saint Louis, MO
 B. Billings, MT
 C. Omaha, NE
 D. Newark, NJ
 E. Albuquerque, NM
 F. Albany, NY
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. Central Islip, NY
 I. New York, NY
 J. Charlotte, NC
 K. Fargo, ND
 L. Cincinnati, OH
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Portland, OR
 O. Altoona, PA
 P. Harrisburg, PA
 Q. Philadelphia, PA
 R. Pittsburgh, PA
 S. Scranton, PA
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Fort Worth, TX
 V. Houston, TX
 W. Salt Lake City, UT
 X. Richmond, VA
 Y. Roanoke, VA
 Z. Seattle, WA
 AA. Spokane, WA
 AC. Huntington, WV
 AD. Milwaukee, WI


Assessment 1
1.
This position requires a selective placement factor.

Possession of the selective placement factor is a prerequisite for the position.

Applicants who do not possess the selective placement factor are ineligible for further consideration.

Evidence of the selective placement factor must be reflected in your resume and a copy of your certification MUST BE provided with your supporting documentation.

The selective placement factor for this position is:
A current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner).

Do you have a current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner)?
 Yes, I possess a current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner).
 No, I do not possess a current Product Owner certification issued by a reputable Agile or Scrum professional certification body, such as Scrum Alliance (Certified Scrum Product Owner) or Scrum.org (Professional Scrum Product Owner).


2.
Do you possess IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four (4) competencies listed below (your resume must demonstrate this experience)?
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response (A or B) that most closely and accurately describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Product Owner at the GS-14 level.

 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level or higher in the Federal service. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies to perform successfully the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience is defined as demonstrated experience: 1) Collaborating with stakeholders and business analysts to prioritize and refine the product backlog so that the most valuable and critical features are developed first. 2) Developing and communicating a clear product vision and translating that vision into well-defined requirements, user stories, and acceptance criteria. 3) Drafting and refining user stories and product backlog items into clear, executable tasks for the technical team. 4) Participating in Agile ceremonies and applying Agile methodologies to drive modernization initiatives, iterative development, and continuous process improvement. 5) Defining and executing go-to-production plans and conducting post launch product performance evaluations to identify improvement opportunities, inform future investment decisions, and ensure solutions continued to meet evolving business needs. 6) Providing expert technical advice, guidance, and recommendations to support agency IT decisions by analyzing business requirements, priorities, and constraints, understanding and anticipating client needs, and assessing system impacts.
 I do not have the specialized experience requirement as described in "A" above.


4.
Do you possess certification as a Contracting Officer's Representative (FAC-COR), Level 1 or higher?                                                     

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001): my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙