Position Title
Chiropractor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12849676-26-RW Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship.

Are you a Citizen of the United States? (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Education.

Do you hold a Degree of doctor of chiropractic, or its equivalent, resulting from a course of education in chiropractic? The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools or colleges approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:

(1) United States schools or colleges of chiropractic listed as accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education, at http://www.cce-usa.org/, or equivalent agency, in the list published for the year in which the course of study was completed.

(2) Schools (including foreign schools) accepted by the licensing body of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia as qualifying for full or unrestricted licensure.
 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure or Registration
Do you meet the following?

(1) Doctor of Chiropractic (Except Residents). Current, full and unrestricted license to practice chiropractic in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia. The facility Director may waive this requirement if the doctor of chiropractic is to serve in a country other than the United States and the doctor of chiropractic has licensure in that country.

(2) Residents. Licensure in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia before completion of the first year of a VA residency. Unlicensed residents must meet any registration or other equivalent requirements established for chiropractic residents of non-VA facilities or chiropractic clinics with which the VA facility is affiliated for training purposes during the first year of VA residency.

 Yes
 No


4.
English Language Proficiency.

Doctors of chiropractic appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d). Do you meet this requirement?


 Yes
 No


5.
GRADE REQUIREMENTS. In addition to the basic requirements stated above, the following qualifications criteria must be met in determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates. Do you meet one of the following requirements?

Associate Grade. None beyond the basic requirements.

Full Grade. Two years of full-time chiropractic practice or its equivalent. One year of full-time post-graduate residency specialty training from a chiropractic school or college accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education, or equivalent agency approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, is acceptable in lieu of the 2 years of practice. Candidate must have demonstrated the professional competence and performance necessary to provide independently the full range of clinical diagnosis and chiropractic treatment for the most prevalent neuro-musculoskeletal conditions including subluxation complex.

Intermediate Grade. A doctor of chiropractic at the Intermediate grade meets the requirements for Full grade and the requirements in subparagraphs 3c (1) and (2):

(1) A total of 4 years of chiropractic practice or its equivalent. Acceptable in lieu of 4 years of practice is completion of a 3-year full-time post-graduate residency program from an accredited U.S. chiropractic college, as evidenced by documentation of completion (e.g., transcript), which renders the doctor of chiropractic eligible for certification by a specialty board recognized by the American Chiropractic Association, the International Chiropractors' Association, or the American Board of Chiropractic Specialties to obtain Diplomate status.

(2) Demonstrates a high level of professional attainment. Examples of such attainment are:

(a) Is a recognized expert in dealing with a variety of unusually difficult chiropractic cases which are referred by other facilities for resolution and recommended courses of action to provide for maximum rehabilitation. Typically, in this capacity serves as a consultant to doctors of chiropractic or other professionals in other health care facilities.

(b) Has assumed responsibility for a multi-faceted chiropractic program including clinical research and/or training requiring a high degree of competence and skill in developing innovative, new and advanced diagnostic and treatment techniques. Typically, the program is in an educationally affiliated health care facility having a chiropractic training program of moderate scope involving liaison with other medical services and affiliated schools.

(c) Played a significant part in the conduct of research in a problem area of considerable scope and complexity that required novel approaches and which resulted in answers to important questions or important changes in existing methods and techniques. Publications authored by the doctor of chiropractic are of considerable value to others in the individual's field. Typically, overall contributions are recognized by serving on important committees or other bodies in the profession.

(d) Has full responsibility for carrying out a chiropractic training program of significant size in which the doctor of chiropractic is responsible for maintaining liaison with the affiliated school and other educational institutions and professional or scientific organizations. The individual has displayed innovative approaches in development of curriculum and course content and in expanding and improving the educational program.

d. Senior Grade. The Senior grade is restricted to selected leadership positions. The individual's qualifications, as well as the scope and complexity of the assignment, are considered. A doctor of chiropractic at the Senior grade meets the requirements for Intermediate grade and the requirements in subparagraphs 3d(1) and (2):

(1) The doctor of chiropractic at this grade will meet one or more of the following:

(a) Possesses such academic stature as would warrant a faculty appointment of a professorial level (i.e., full professor) in a school or college of chiropractic or other appropriate affiliated school or college.

(b) Has been awarded Diplomate status by a specialty board recognized by the American Chiropractic Association, the International Chiropractors' Association, or the American Board of Chiropractic Specialties and is currently in good standing with the specialty board.

(2) Demonstrates superior professional attainment. Examples of such attainment are:

(a) Serves as a team leader in addressing major chiropractic problems affecting the continued provision of quality care health services at a Veterans Integrated Service Network or national level. The recommendations and conclusions of the doctor of chiropractic are highly regarded.

(b) Has assumed responsibility for carrying out a major chiropractic program segment on a national level.

(c) Conducts research in a difficult area of major scientific interest that has contributed to a substantial advance in the chiropractic health field with important professional publications.

e. Chief Grade. The Chief grade is restricted to selected leadership positions. The Individual's qualifications, as well as the scope and complexity of the assignment, are considered. A doctor of chiropractic at the Chief grade meets the requirements for Senior grade and must demonstrate a sustained very high level of professional performance with evidence of the exceptional professional and/or administrative development in subparagraphs 3e(1) and (2):

(1) Has assumed substantial professional and/or administrative responsibilities in which the individual is expected to fully advise and make professional clinical and educational recommendations as to courses of action on problems and considerations of national scope. The doctor of chiropractic at this level has responsibility for a major chiropractic program segment on a nationwide basis and is consistently called upon to represent the organization in an authoritative manner in matters dealing with development of new and/or revised concepts and programs having a major impact upon the academic, medical, and chiropractic communities.

(2) Has demonstrated outstanding professional attainment. Examples of such attainment are:

(a) Achievement of outstanding results in research that is regarded as having a major impact on advancing the field.

(b) Significant number of noteworthy publications in nationally recognized professional journals.

f. Chiropractic House Staff.

(1) First-Year Residents. Meets requirements specified in section A of this Appendix. Obtain licensure to practice chiropractic in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or in the District of Columbia during the first year of VA residency.

(2) Second-Year Residents. Meet requirements specified in section A. In addition, must have competed 1 year of approved residency training or its credible equivalent from an accredited U.S. chiropractic college.

(3) Third-Year Residents (if applicable). Have the qualifications of the second-year resident. In addition, must have competed 2 years of approved residency training or its credible equivalent from an accredited U.S. chiropractic college.

g. Attendings.

(1) Meet all basic requirements specified in section A of this appendix.

(2) Possess a demonstrated satisfactory ability in chiropractic; be capable of assisting in maintaining accepted standards of professional chiropractic care in VA facilities; and be capable of accepting full responsibility for such proper care and treatment of their assigned patients.

(3) Be an outstanding member of the local chiropractic community of the caliber of a faculty member. Where the attending does not hold a faculty appointment at an affiliated chiropractic or other appropriate affiliated school or college, this would be evidenced by a recommendation of the Deans Committee or equivalent body. The attending is capable of giving adequate training to chiropractic residents or students in facilities conducting residency and/or training programs and be sufficiently qualified as to be acceptable to appropriate training review committees for the direction of training.

h. Consultants.

(1) Meet all basic requirements specified in section A of this appendix.

(2) Possess outstanding professional clinical ability in chiropractic; be capable of affording the facility Director and appropriate Chief of Service, the benefits of their professional experience and counsel; and be capable of rendering such professional chiropractic services as may be required in maintaining the highest possible level of chiropractic care and services in VA facilities.

(3) Be capable of accepting the responsibility for, and direction of, the educational training of residents in the program for which they serve as the consultant at facilities conducting residency training programs. Consultants not holding faculty appointments at an affiliated chiropractic or other appropriate school or college should possess the equivalent professional qualifications as evidenced by an appropriate recommendation for appointment from the Deans Committee or equivalent body responsible for the recommendation of consultant appointments to the VA facility.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙