Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (APPSW)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO-EUSO-26-12900943-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


5.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Information Technology Specialist (APPSW) position with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Your resume and the response you provide will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
At the GS-12, select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Information Technology Specialist (APPSW), GS-2210-13.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level at the GS-12 grade level in the federal service which includes: -Experience leading end to end delivery of complex enterprise application software solutions (requirements, design, development, testing, deployment, and sustainment) using Agile/Scrum and DevSecOps practices, including CI/CD automation, containerization/orchestration, API/microservices architectures, and cloud platforms (e.g., AWS/Azure); and -Experience planning and executing projects under technical and administrative supervision, coordinating cross functional stakeholders, optimizing performance and reliability, and resolving high impact defects across environments; and -Experience interpreting and adapting Information Technology (IT) policies, standards, and security/compliance frameworks (e.g., NIST SP 800 53, FISMA, FedRAMP, Zero Trust principles) to novel or complex application software challenges.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


2.
At the GS-13, select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Information Technology Specialist (APPSW), GS-2210-14
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. Specialized Experience includes: -Experience developing and sustaining ServiceNow ITSM solutions (Incident, Change, CMDB, Knowledge, SLA, Surveys, Employee Center, Process Mining) and leading Agile delivery teams; and -Experience integrating ServiceNow with cloud and on prem systems using IntegrationHub, REST/SOAP, MID Server, and SSO/OAuth solutions; and -Experience implementing ServiceNow AI and automation (Now Assist, Virtual Agent, AI Search, Predictive Intelligence) to improve triage, routing, and self-service; and -Experience managing multiple IT projects and program governance; advising senior leadership and negotiating policy/roadmap decisions.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙