Position Title
Security Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZF-12995361-26-EO Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select an answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience (clear, specific and detailed on Resume) and education (all transcripts) are subject to verification by investigation.


1.
Specialized Experience GS-05: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-04. Choose the option that best fits your experience level. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Performing standard and non- standard assignments involving different and unrelated processes or methods in varying sequence; possess extensive knowledge of rules, operations, or business practices; Follows accepted practices in resolving non-recurring problems and meeting deadlines; completed products are evaluated for effectiveness in meeting goals; extensive guidelines in the form of instructions, manuals, and regulations are applied.
 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-04. Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position by training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Performing standard and non- standard assignments involving different and unrelated processes or methods in varying sequence; possess extensive knowledge of rules, operations, or business practices; Follows accepted practices in resolving non-recurring problems and meeting deadlines; completed products are evaluated for effectiveness in meeting goals; extensive guidelines in the form of instructions, manuals, and regulations are applied.
 I am requesting to qualify based on my educational achievement where I have completed 4 years above high school. (Successfully completed education above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite is creditable at GS-5 for all positions except Reporting Stenographer, GS-5. This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school.) TRANSCRIPTS ARE REQUIRED IF YOU ARE ATTEMPTING TO USE EDUCATION TO QUALIFY
 I am requesting to qualify based on my combination of specialized experience and education. (Equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience may be used to meet total experience requirements at grade
 None of the previous options describe my specialized experience for applying at the GS-05 grade


2.
Specialized Experience GS-06: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-05. (Assignments at this grade are given with more specific instructions and guidance until the incumbent has gained familiarity and experience with the work and can perform all duties at the full performance level.) Choose the option that best fits your experience level. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Review position risk sensitivity levels as full assistant to the Personnel Security Specialist. Assemble position descriptions and functional statements for the Personnel Security Specialist for review. Track electronically the level assigned and the appropriate background investigation needed. For pre-employment processes, serves as the initial point of contact for new appointees including but not limited to paid or without compensation employees, volunteers, students, residents, and contractors. Reviews information submitted by the requesting office to validate level of background required, enters appointee information into a local data base tracking system and refers appointee for fingerprinting. Initiates, reviews and releases appointees background investigations in the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency's eApp systemor in conjunction with the Personnel Security and Adjudications Center (PSAC). Regularly monitors the status of specific pending items, compiles data to produce reports, follows up to determine status and records results. Reports are produced on a regular basis (weekly) to keep top level management apprised of the status of the Suitability/Security Program and for performance management/performance improvement initiatives. Maintains logs of current employees who are in public trust positions and ensures reinvestigations are initiated, reviewed and released using eApp within the required timeframe as per policy. Works closely with the PSAC to monitor the progress of investigations when applicable. As needed, works with applicants who may be experiencing difficulties with completion of electronic forms related to the background screening process. Also works with Recruitment and Staffing to assure required background documents are complete and accurate as per policy (OF-306, SF-85, SF-85P, etc.). Takes and transmits electronic fingerprints for appointees or when the FBI returns fingerprints unclassifiable for various reasons. Only in rare instances when there is machine malfunction, manually takes fingerprints for the purpose of background investigations from DCSA.
 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-05 as described above.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


3.
Specialized Experience GS-07: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-06. Choose the option that best fits your experience level. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: (Assignments at this grade are given under minimal supervision and require independent judgment and discretion completing all duties at the full performance level.) Choose the option that best fits your experience level. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Review position risk sensitivity levels as full assistant to the Personnel Security Specialist. Assemble position descriptions and functional statements for the Personnel Security Specialist for review. Track electronically the level assigned and the appropriate background investigation needed. For pre-employment processes, serves as the initial point of contact for new appointees including but not limited to paid or without compensation employees, volunteers, students, residents, and contractors. Reviews information submitted by the requesting office to validate level of background required, enters appointee information into a local data base tracking system and refers appointee for fingerprinting. Initiates, reviews and releases appointees background investigations in the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency's eApp system or in conjunction with the Personnel Security and Adjudications Center (PSAC). Regularly monitors the status of specific pending items, compiles data to produce reports, follows up to determine status and records results. Reports are produced on a regular basis (weekly) to keep top level management apprised of the status of the Suitability/Security Program and for performance management/performance improvement initiatives. Maintains logs of current employees who are in public trust positions and ensures reinvestigations are initiated, reviewed and released using eApp within the required timeframe as per policy. Works closely with the PSAC to monitor the progress of investigations when applicable. As needed, works with applicants who may be experiencing difficulties with completion of electronic forms related to the background screening process. Also works with Recruitment and Staffing to assure required background documents are complete and accurate as per policy (OF-306, SF-85, SF-85P, etc.). Takes and transmits electronic fingerprints for appointees or when the FBI returns fingerprints unclassifiable for various reasons. Only in rare instances when there is machine malfunction, manually takes fingerprints for the purpose of background investigations from DCSA.
 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-06 as described above.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙