Position Title
Attorney Advisor (Structured and Project Finance)
Agency
Export-Import Bank of the United States
Announcement Number
DH26-AR-12939700-OGC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen:  Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current or Former Political Appointees:  The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently employed, or have been employed within the last 5 years, in any one of the categories below, you must disclose this information. Failure to disclose this information could result in disciplinary action including removal from Federal Service.

Are you a current or former political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Schedule A or Schedule C political appointee, or an appointee who serves/served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch?

-OR-

Are you a current or former political appointee or non-career SES Executive Branch employee?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your resume and supporting documents must support the responses you select. (Failure to provide a response below may result in further lack of consideration for this announcement.)


1.
Select the option that best describes your education.
 I have successfully completed a J.D. or LL.B. degree
 I have successfully completed a LL.M. and either a J.D. or LL.B. degree
 I have successfully completed a S.J.D. and either a J.D. or LL.B. degree
 None of the above


2.
Are you a current member of the Bar with a valid license to practice law in a state or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-15: Do you have at least three years of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal Service or other equivalent pay system that has equipped you to perform the major duties of this position? This specialized experience includes:
Origination Experience - At least 3 years of experience in origination stage drafting and negotiating(or supervising the drafting and negotiating with active involvement) of core finance and security documents (such as credit agreements, common terms agreements, intercreditor agreements and liens, pledges and other security arrangements such as common security agreements) in connection with domestic and cross-border (international) limited recourse project finance and other forms of highly structured and complex domestic and cross-border finance matters ("Highly Structured &Project Finance Matters") involving representation of either a project sponsor or a lender or group of senior lenders preferably including one or more multilateral lending agencies, export credit agencies and/or bilateral agencies or other United States federal government agencies (collectively "Core Finance Parties"), with at least 1 year of such experience being in a capacity as lead in drafting and negotiation of such types of documents.
Sectoral Experience - Experience representing Core Finance Parties in Highly Structured and Project Finance matters across at least two qualifying sectors, such as Satellites, Non Satellite Telecommunications, Oil and Gas, Mining, Power, Petrochemicals, Basic Industry Manufacturing, Microchips, Semiconductors and related High Technology, and Airports, Seaports or other Infrastructure Sectors.
Portfolio Management Experience - At least 2 years of experience relating to the routine portfolio management of operating credits for Highly Structured & Project Finance Matters, including experience with respect to waivers and amendments, and familiarity with the issues that arise in restructuring of credits, enforcement of rights and/or arbitration or other dispute resolution.
Communication - Experience in effective oral and written communication in applying legal reasoning to engage and collaborate with high level officials in both the public and private sectors in the United States and internationally; AND
Leadership and Mentorship in Structured Finance - Experience serving as a resource and mentor to junior attorneys by addressing questions and issues related to Highly Structured & Project Finance Matters, supporting their growth and enhancing team expertise.
 Yes (Your resume must reflect this specialized experience in order to qualify for the GS-15 grade level).
 My experience is not reflected in the description above.


3a.
Please indicate which position(s) on your resume supports your response to the specialized experience (include title, agency/organization, dates of experience (month/year to
month/year) DO NOT COPY AND PASTE RESUME or state 'REFER TO RESUME'.


4.
Satellites Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of satellite communications (GEO, MEO and/or LEO satellites)
 B. Financing of satellite constellation systems
 C. Financing of launch services
 D. Other space-sector services financing
 E. None of the above


5.
Non-Satellite Telecommunications Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of fiber optic or other optical communications projects
 B. Financing of voice, data or multimedia communications projects
 C. Financings of wireless communications projects
 D. Financing of other non-satellite telecommunications projects
 E. None of the above


6.
Oil and Gas Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of oil and gas field development projects
 B. Financing of oil extraction and production projects
 C. Financing of oil refining projects
 D. Financing of oil or gas pipeline projects
 E. Financing of petroleum refinery projects
 F. None of the above


7.
Mining Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of mining projects
 B. Financing of integrated mine–power–rail–port projects C. Financing of forestry projects
 C. Financing of mineral and metal processing projects
 D. Financing of other extractive or natural resource projects
 E. None of the above


8.
Power Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of conventional power generation (gas-fired or coal-fired) projects
 B. Financing of thermal power projects
 C. Financing of renewable and alternative energy power (hydropower, geothermal, solar, and/or wind) projects
 D. Financing of nuclear power plant projects
 E. Other types of nuclear sector financings
 F. Financing of other types of power generation projects,
 G. Financing of other types of energy transmission and distribution infrastructure projects
 H. None of the above


9.
Petrochemicals Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of natural gas liquefaction plants or other liquified natural gas (LNG) delivery structure new-build projects
 B. Financing of natural gas liquefaction plants or other liquified natural gas (LNG) delivery structure expansion projects
 C. Financing of polypropylene, polyethylene, ethylene, ammonia and/or urea projects
 D. Financing of other petrochemical plant projects
 E. None of the above


10.
Basic Industry Manufacturing Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of heavy industrial facility (large-scale industrial plant) projects
 B. Financing of pulp and paper plant projects
 C. Financing of chemical and pharmaceutical or other advanced manufacturing facility projects
 D. Financing of water, sanitation and/or other environmental infrastructure projects
 E. Financing of agro-industrial development projects
 F. Financing of other large-scale infrastructure projects
 G. None of the above


11.
Microchips, Semiconductors and/or Related High Technology Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of microchip and/or semiconductor projects
 B. Financing of data centers and/or technology park projects
 C. Financing of advanced or high-technology manufacturing projects
 D. Financing of other high technology projects
 E. None of the above


12.
Airports, Seaports or Other Infrastructure Sector - select all financing types in which you have direct experience with:
 A. Financing of airports and/or other aviation infrastructure projects
 B. Financing of air traffic control systems (or other navigational aids) projects
 C. Financing of maritime infrastructure (port and/or harbor) projects
 D. Financing of rail infrastructure projects
 E. Financing of highway projects
 F. Financing of logistics facility (depot/warehouse/terminal) projects
 G. Financing of other transportation infrastructure projects
 H. None of the above


13.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and all supporting materials, including my resume, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙