Position Title
Speech-Language Pathologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13062691-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Speech-Language Pathologist (GS-665-13) position with the West Palm Beach VA Healthcare System. This advanced practice role is part of the Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology Service and supports Veteran care across clinical settings throughout the facility and associated outpatient clinics.

Applicants will be evaluated according to the VA Qualification Standards established by the Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO). These standards outline required education, licensure, experience, and proficiency in spoken and written English for placement at the GS-13 level. Consistent with VA policy, grandfathering provisions apply to individuals who are already employed in the Speech-Language Pathology occupation within the Department of Veterans Affairs. Employees who meet the criteria described in VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G30 may qualify based on their existing licensure, credentials, and experience. 

This assessment is designed to confirm that applicants meet the baseline qualification requirements and possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform successfully in the GS-665-13 advanced practice role.


1.
Do you meet the Citizenship Requirement for this position?Citizenship must be verified in accordance with VA policy. Citizens of the United States receive appointment preference. However, non-citizens may be appointed only when it is not possible to recruit qualified U.S. citizens, per chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.
 Yes, I am a Citizen of the United States.
 No, I am not a U.S. citizen, but I understand that non-citizens may be appointed only when qualified U.S. citizens are not available.


2.

Do you meet the English Language Proficiency requirement for this position?

In accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f), no person may serve in a direct patient-care capacity within VHA unless they are proficient in spoken and written English.

 Yes, I am proficient in both spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English.


3.

Do you meet the Education and Experience requirement for this position?

To qualify, applicants must have one of the following:

A master's degree, or its equivalent, in speech-language pathology, communication disorders, or a directly related field from an accredited college or university, and one year of creditable experience. - OR -
A doctoral degree in speech-language pathology, communication disorders and sciences, or a related field from an accredited college or university.


Important Note Regarding Education and Transcripts: If you are using education to qualify for this position, transcripts must be submitted with your application package.

 Yes, I have a qualifying master’s degree and at least one year of creditable experience.
 Yes, I have a qualifying doctoral degree from an accredited college or university.
 No, I do not meet the education and experience requirements.


4.

Do you meet the Licensure Requirement for the GS-13 Speech-Language Pathologist position?

To qualify, individuals must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license in Speech-Language Pathology issued by a U.S. state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.


Reminder: Please remember to submit your licensure with your application. If licensure is not submitted, you will be ineligible for referral or consideration.

 Yes, I hold a full, current, and unrestricted Speech-Language Pathology license issued by a U.S. state, territory, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
 I do NOT hold licensure because I am applying for a research or academic assignment with no direct patient care, and understand licensure may be waived under VA policy.


5.

Do you meet the GS-13 grade requirement for professional experience?

To qualify for Speech-Language Pathologist, GS-13, candidates must have: One year of professional experience comparable to the next lower level (GS-12), in addition to meeting all basic requirements.


Note: Specialized experience must be clearly demonstrated and detailed within your resume to verify that you meet the grade-level requirements.
 Yes, I have at least one year of professional experience equivalent to the GS-12 level.
 No, I do not have one year of professional experience equivalent to the GS-12 level.


6.

Do you meet the GS-13 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for this position?

To qualify, candidates must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of scientific principles and contemporary, evidence-based practice in differential diagnosis and treatment of speech, language, voice, swallowing and cognitive-communication disorders as it relates to a specialized clinical program.
(b) Skill in prioritizing program goals and objectives.
(c) Ability to build consensus among clinical team members, interests and points of view.
(d) Ability to gather and evaluate outcome data to determine program quality and effectiveness.
(e) Ability to serve as a resource to other health care providers regarding a specialized clinical program.


Note: Your responses must clearly and thoroughly demonstrate the required Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) outlined for this position using specific examples from your professional background.
 Yes, I demonstrate all required KSAs listed above.
 No, I do not demonstrate all required KSAs listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


To ensure your application is fully considered, please make sure your resume includes the following:

- A complete work history, including job titles, duties, start and end dates (month/year), hours worked per week, and salary for each position.- Detailed descriptions of experience that clearly show how you meet the specialized experience requirements listed in the announcement.- Any relevant certifications, licenses, education, or training.- All federal experience must include pay plan, series, and grade level.- Use clear, concise language focused on duties and accomplishments.- Ensure your resume reflects full-time or part-time status for each role.- Upload all required documents listed in the announcement to avoid disqualification.




Applicants currently serving or previously served in the Federal civilian workforce must submit SF-50(s) with their application.

Please include:

- Your most recent non-award SF-50 showing your current or highest grade, step, tenure, and position information.- If you have held a higher grade previously, also submit the SF-50 documenting that grade (non-award).- Ensure your SF-50 displays actual appointment information-awards or mass actions cannot be accepted to verify grade or tenure.- If applying for a position with time-in-grade requirements, submit SF-50(s) that clearly show you meet those requirements.

Failure to provide the appropriate SF-50 documentation may result in ineligibility or lowered consideration.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙