Position Title
SECURITY SPECIALIST (TRAINING SPECIALIST)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12847255-AF-26-007 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E7 in the Pennsylvania National Guard or are you willing and able to meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 193rd SOW
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 193 Special Operations Wing (This includes 193rd RSG, 193rd AOG, 211th EIS, 271st CCS, 201st RHS, 112th ACS, 203rd Weather Flight, 193rd SOW Det 1, 148th ASOS, PA ANG HQ DET 1)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
All Series GS-0080 personnel must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level. Each applicant must have the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines and its applicable Security Series career level, as cited on page two. Applicants must have the experiences, education, or training that demonstrates the ability to follow directions, to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures. Applicants must demonstrate the ability or have endorsements that indicate the ability to learn and perform the cited position's duties. Do you have these experiences?
 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 24 months experience in commonly used methods, procedures, regulations and other guides that relate to training programs within the applicable Security Forces career field? Do you possess the knowledge and skill to apply analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of program related issues and problems? Are you skilled in developing, analyzing, and evaluating security training programs to meet mission requirements and improve the security-training program for the installation? Are you skilled in defining problem areas and in application of conventional training program management principles and concepts? Are you experienced in the logistics plans and support functions that interrelate with the Security Forces work requirements?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes.
 No, I have not.


4.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to someone in this agency.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙