Position Title
Fleet and Family Support Center (FFSC) Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12806964 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2025 to Oct 12, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Fleet and Family Support Program Director position. The following questions are designed to assess your background as it relates to the requirements for this positions. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
To meet the basic requirement for this position, which of the following do you possess?
 A bachelor’s degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (e.g. Social Work, Marriage and Family Therapy, Psychology, Counseling, etc).
 4 years of experience in the behavioral or social sciences, equivalent to a major in the field.
 An equivalent combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not possess any of the above education and/or experience.


2.
Do you possess at least 5 years of demonstrated work experience administering military family readiness programs, overseeing implementation of and compliance with applicable Department of Defense laws, policies, regulations, and processes?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
If you answered "yes" to above question, identify in the narrative box below, where in your resume you performed these services. You must provide job title(s) and date(s) of employment. If your experience was gained from a federal position, you must also include the pay plan, series and grade (e.g. NF-0201-04 / GS-0343-11, etc.) and date(s) of employment).


4.
Do you possess experience preparing both short and long range budget or financial management plans to include developing resource guidance for a geographically dispersed program?
 Yes, I possess this experience gained as a current or former Department of Defense (DOD) employee.
 Yes, I possess this experience gained as a non-DOD employee.
 No, I do not possess this experience.


5.
How many years of experience do you possess performing the full range of supervisory duties (e.g., directing work to be accomplished by staff; assigning work based on priorities; conducting annual performance reviews; ensuring staff receives proper training; addressing potential disciplinary and/or performance issues; and supporting equal employment opportunity policies)?
 I possess more than 5 years of full-time equivalent experience serving in an official capacity as a 1st or 2nd level supervisor to subordinate staff.
 I possess 3 to 5 years of full-time equivalent experience serving in an official capacity as a 1st or 2nd level supervisor to subordinate staff.
 I possess less than 3 years of full-time equivalent experience serving in an official capacity as a 1st or 2nd level supervisor to subordinate staff.
 I do not possess experience serving in an official supervisory capacity.


6.
Which best describes your experience communicating program and resource information at meetings and discussions with representatives from various high-level public and private sectors to identify trends which will affect agency-wide programs?
 I possess at least 3 years of full-time equivalent experience gained within Department of Navy (DON) communities.
 I possess less than 3 years of full-time equivalent experience gained within Department of Navy (DON) communities.
 I possess at least 3 years of full-time equivalent experience gained within Department of Defense (DoD) communities, but outside of DON.
 I possess less than 3 years of full-time equivalent experience gained within Department of Defense (DoD) communities, but outside of DON.
 I possess at least 3 years of full-time equivalent experience gained within the public sector community, but outside DOD.
 I possess less than 3 years of full-time equivalent experience gained within the public sector community, but outside of DOD.
 I do not possess this type of experience within any of the referenced communities.


7.
Which best describes your experience developing and maintaining liaison with various community stakeholders for the purpose of gathering and sharing information about the services and support available to military members?
 I possess 5+ years of full-time equivalent experience in this area.
 I possess 3 to 5 years of full-time experience in this area.
 I possess at least 1 year, but less than 3 years of full-time experience in this area.
 I do not possess experience in this area.


8.
How many years of experience do you have ensuring compliance of program certification standards, documenting shortfalls, and developing action plans for compliance?
 I possess more than 5 years of experience with the above.
 I possess 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I possess 1 to 3 years of experience with the above
 I possess less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I do not possess experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙