Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
Office of the Chief Financial Officer
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12899135 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current HUD employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current US Department of Housing and Urban Development employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current HUD employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current HUD employee serving on a VRA appointment
 Yes
 No


5.

Which of the following describes your eligibility for this position? (Note: You must meet one of the categories as outlined in the "Clarification from the Agency" section of the job announcement.)

 I am a current HUD employee that is Status eligible.
 I am a current HUD employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am CTAP eligible.
 I do not meet these eligibility requirements.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


6.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


7.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


Performance Appraisal
1.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.


Assessment 1
Individual Occupational Requirements
A. Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelors degree or higher in accounting or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting/auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant/auditor.") OR
B. Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
3. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Specialized Experience for the GS-13, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

Performing the full range of accounting duties which encompasses analyzing accounting data, records, reports and/or systems in order to solve accounting problems.

Examples of such experience could include:
- Leading a team and/or projects that involved formulating financial reports, recommending policies and procedures affecting an accounting system or program; OR
- Preparing, analyzing and interpreting accounting data, records, and reports (i.e. SF224, Intragovernmental Reports, Standard General Ledger, cash reconciliations, funds control, and managing administrative funds); OR
- General ledger accounting experience, such as researching and reconciling to subsidiary ledgers, correcting all differences between the subsidiary ledger balances and the control account balances in the general ledger; OR
- Reconciling cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, and other general ledger accounts; correcting all differences between the subsidiary ledger balances and the control account balances in the general ledger; OR
- Developing a segment of an automated accounting system; OR
- Analyzing accounting systems in order to modify and adapt accounting practices to solve a variety of accounting problems.



2.
Select the one statement from the list below that best describes your level of education and/or experience. There must be sufficient documentation in your resume to support your response (e.g., copies of transcripts and/or certificates).
 I have earned a Bachelors degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. Finance courses are not typically included in meeting the 24-hour requirement. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (May include up to 6 hours credit in business law.) Finance courses are not typically included in meeting the 24-hour requirement. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, which was obtained through a written examination. (COPY OF CERTIFICATE REQUIRED & COPY OF TRANSCRIPT RECOMMENDED)
 I have at least four (4) years of experience in auditing/accounting, or a combination of auditing/accounting experience, college-level education, and training and have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I understand that my experience/education will be reviewed by at least 2 professional accountants to verify that (a) I have worked at the full performance level in accounting or auditing, and (b) I possess the required professional auditing/accounting knowledge, skills and abilities do not meet any of the above education or combination of education and experience statements. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED) (
 I do not meet any of the above education or combination of education and experience statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙