Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Rating)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-26-JS-12994827-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Los Angeles, CA
 D. Oakland, CA
 E. Sacramento, CA
 F. San Diego, CA
 G. Honolulu, HI
 H. Kahului, HI
 I. Reno, NV
 J. Albuquerque, NM
 K. Portland, OR
 L. Salt Lake City, UT
 M. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
10
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Veterans Service Representative (Rating) with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open permanent VBA employees who are currently assigned to the Regional Office Veterans Service Center (VSC) Division they are applying to and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a current employee of the VBA as described above?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE:  As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement


2.
GS-09: At the GS-09 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 or higher grade.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position.


3.
GS-10: At the GS-10 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least on year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 or higher grade.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position.


4.
GS-11: At the GS-11 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-10 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-10 level or higher.
 Neither A or B apply to me.


5.
GS-12: At the GS-12 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-11 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 level or higher.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" therefore I am not qualified for this position.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


6.
GS-09: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education.

Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level, or higher, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as experience which required interpretation of evidence (medical, benefit and/or legal documentation) to assist in preparation of legal cases, to determine eligibility of benefits/services or to assist in performing clinical research, clinical or physiological studies, evaluations, or medical treatment.
Examples of experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Determining the eligibility for federal or state-administered benefits, such as: disability, education, housing, medical and/or veterans' benefits.
Applying federal and state laws to process claims pertaining to a service, disability, or benefit program.
Gathering and requesting evidence to build service program case files, respond to claimant inquiries, and identify errors, inconsistencies, or omissions.
Explaining decisions to claimants, customers, special interest groups, dependents and/or representatives to gain understanding of determinations.
Processing claims for eligibility for workers' compensation benefits to determine appropriateness and amount of worker's compensation claims.
Performing, ordering and/or evaluating diagnostic tests to identify and assess patient's condition, report symptoms or changes in patients' condition, maintain accurate detailed reports/charts.
OR
Education Substitution: The following can be used to substitute for specialized experience.
Master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR
2 full years (36 semester hours) of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LLB. or J.D., if related.
OR
Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Applicants may combine education and experience to qualify for the GS-09, GS-10, and GS-11 levels. Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience (1) and Graduate level education (2). (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 to qualify). Only graduate education more than the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-09, GS-10, and GS-11

Note: Coursework must have equipped you with the competencies described in the "How you will be evaluated" section of the announcement.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service.
 I have a Master's degree or equivalent graduate degree OR two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.B. or J.D. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and GRADUATE education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


7.
GS-10: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education.

Applicants must have (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-09). In addition to the experience required at the GS-9 level, applicants must also have experience that documents knowledge of Federal Service reading and interpreting Federal benefits laws, rules and regulations to prepare claims rating decisions and explaining the decisions to individuals of various educational backgrounds. OR

Education Substitution: The following can be used to substitute for specialized experience:
Two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D OR
Equivalent doctoral degree in a field related to the duties of this position. Graduate education must demonstrate the competencies necessary for the position. OR

Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience (1) and Graduate level education (2). (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 to qualify)

Note: Coursework must have equipped you with the competencies described in the "How you will be evaluated" section of the announcement.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and doctorate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


8.
GS-11: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education.
Applicants must have (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-10). In addition, the applicant must document knowledge in Federal Service assessing sources of evidence (to include anatomy, physiology, diseases and disability documentation) to arrive at rating decisions, reading and interpreting medical and legal terminology, composing official documentation regarding a wide range of Veterans benefits laws and regulations that pertain to the entitlement for and award process of each VA benefit program. OR

Education Substitution: The following can be used to substitute for specialized experience:
* Ph. D or equivalent doctoral degree; OR
* Three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M, if related. Graduate education must demonstrate the competencies necessary for the position. OR

Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience (1) and Graduate level education (2). To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 to qualify)

Note: Coursework must have equipped you with the competencies described in the "How you will be evaluated" section of the announcement.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-10 level in the Federal service.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and DOCTORATE education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


9.
GS-12: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education

Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level, or higher, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as using federal or state laws pertaining to compensation, pension to accurately rate claims; and working with disability charts or rating schedules, innumerable disabilities, and various percentages of evaluations for disabilities to verify benefit claims; and comparing medical reports and other evidence to the rating schedule to make sound rating decisions.

NO EDUCATION MAY BE SUBSTITUTED AT THIS GRADE LEVEL.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service.
 My experience is not described above.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.


10.
Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙