Position Title
Med Instrument Tech (GI)-Gastroenterology
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12831708-26-LS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 10, 2025 to Monday, November 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1

The following questionnaire is used to help determine your eligibility and qualifications. Please answer the following questions honestly and be sure to review your answers prior to submitting.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS


1.
United States Citizenship: Are you a citizen of the United States? (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


GRADE DETERMINATION


3.
Grade GS-4
Do you have at least one ( 1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. Six months of this experience may have been in medically related fields such as nursing assistant, practical nursing, or similar fields. The remaining six months must have been in operating diagnostic and therapeutic equipment covered by this occupation. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited at this level or, Education, successful completion of two years of education above high school or an associate's degree with a major field of study directly related to the medical instrument technician occupation. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic medical terminology.
Ability to learn the components, operating characteristics, and settings of the equipment to be used.
Ability to learn typical patient reactions to the basic procedures involved and ability to recognize signs of distress.
Ability to learn the standard positions for the procedure being conducted.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing.

Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Grade  GS-5
Do you have at least one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. This would be experience in operating equipment related to the particular specialization for which the application is made or in related functional areas. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited through this grade level or Education, Successful completion of 4 academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation, or] a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to medical instrument technician functions. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of standard medical terminology to interpret physician orders or instructions.
Knowledge of common physical disabilities and ability to position patients for examination or treatment.
Ability to learn the normal and abnormal results for routine procedures to recognize and report obvious abnormalities.
Ability to operate the equipment to administer routine/standard diagnostic treatment or 8 procedures.
Ability to perform standard operator maintenance on the equipment including the ability to disassemble, clean, reassemble, and calibrate the machine.

Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Grade GS-6
Do you have at least one (1) year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to set up endoscopy equipment, ensuring endoscopes and ancillary equipment functions properly.
Ability to aid the physician with standard and routine procedures such as colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).
Knowledge of medical terminology and human anatomy in order to assist practitioner with routine standardized gastroenterology procedures.
Ability to interact with patients explaining procedures and positioning the patient for the procedure, recognizing disabilities or impaired mobility and assisting the patient as necessary.
Ability to reprocess and maintain specialty critical reusable medical equipment (RME), following approved Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and universal precautions.
Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.
Ability to manually clean and disinfect non-critical reusable equipment and surfaces, dispose of one- time-use equipment and trash per facility policy, and restock supplies such as linens, suction equipment, and cleaning products.
Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Grade GS-7
Do you have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of endoscopic equipment and use in basic and complex endoscopic procedures.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology related to the GI system, with ability to recognize and report obvious abnormalities during procedures.
Ability to assist physicians with specialized, complex procedures.
Knowledge of universal precautions and disinfection techniques and ability to follow SOP's to clean reusable medical equipment (RME).
Ability to collaborate, communicate, and demonstrate customer service skills and interpersonal skills with all healthcare professionals to ensure quality and continuity of care.
Ability to use basic computer systems and programs to record patient and endoscopic data, adhering to patient privacy and information security policies.
Ability to deliver patient care, including vital sign measurements and medication administration.

Do you meet these KSAs as outlined here and in the qualification standards section of the announcement?

 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: REMINDER -Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Grade Level (for Federal positions) Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) * Copy of transcripts documenting the required degree - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. * Veteran's Preference Documentation - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙