Position Title
Safety and Occupational Health Manager
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-1612-INDE-26-12808657-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Dec 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in determining your eligibility to be considered for the position. Choose the response that best represents your experience. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume, transcripts, or application and information provided by your references.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meet the requirements for the Safety and Occupational Health Management GS-0018-12 position. Read all responses before making your selection. Failure to select a response will result in an ineligible rating.? NOTE: Your application materials must support your responses to the following questionnaire

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience in or related to safety and occupational health that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Experience must be comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Examples of specialized experience are: Managed elements of a workplace safety or occupational health program by identifying hazards and recommending corrective actions. Advised supervisors or managers on how to apply safety and occupational health laws, regulations, and procedures to resolve workplace safety issues. Developed or updated safety procedures and training materials to help reduce workplace injuries and illnesses. Conducted inspections or evaluations of work environments, equipment, or processes to identify potential safety or health risks. Delivered safety or occupational health training to employees, supervisors, or other personnel to promote safe work practices. Or directly from the OPM website: Managing safety or occupational health program elements. Developing and recommending safety and occupational health policy to higher levels of management. Applying safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, theories, practices, and procedures to advise on or resolve technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements. Developing safety and occupational health standards, regulations, practices, and procedures to eliminate or control potential hazards. Developing or implementing programs to reduce the frequency, severity, and cost of accidents and occupational illnesses. Analyzing or evaluating new and existing jobs, processes, products, or other systems to determine the existence, severity, probability, and outcome of hazards. Designing or modifying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems to control or eliminate hazards. Inspecting or surveying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems for compliance with established safety and occupational health policies or standards and to identify potential new hazards. Training of workers, supervisors, managers, or other safety and occupational health personnel in safety or occupational health subjects. Work in occupational fields such as industrial hygienist, safety engineer, fire prevention engineer, health physicist, and occupational health nurse.
 I do not possess the level of experience described in the statement above.


2.
Quality Ranking Factors are competencies that could be expected to enhance an applicant's performance in a position but are not essential. Please identify if you have one or more of the following certifications. Please upload the certification(s)and include in your resume.

 I have one or more of the following certifications in Certified Safety Professional; Safety Management Professional; Associate Safety Professional; Occupational Hygiene and Safety Technician; Certified Industrial Hygienist.
 I do not have any of the listed certifications above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙