Position Title
Financial Management Specialist
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ST-12930949-26-RC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:

A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.

You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...

To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who:
Has held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service AND
Has not held the grade level of the position being advertised AND/OR
Has not held the promotion potential of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.
To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, and your organization.

Please do not submit an award SF-50.


 Yes
 No


6.
Non-Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility for Current or Former Federal Employees

Are you a current or former Federal employee who has:
held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service; AND
held the target grade level of the position being advertised; OR
held the promotion potential to the target grade level of the position being advertised?
Learn more about service type and tenure on USAJOBS.

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, showing your position title/series/grade/step, service type, appointment type, tenure, your organization, and your full performance level.  Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1."  Please do not submit an award SF-50.

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you claiming eligibility based on an OPM interchange agreement or other special authority?

You may be eligible under a special authority if you are a:

Former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System.
Former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff.
Former incumbent of a position brought into the competitive service.
Disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code.
Former ACTION volunteer.
Current or former Foreign Service officer or employee.
Former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States.
Current or former employee of the U.S. Postal Service.

There are specific eligibility requirements for each of these special hiring authorities. Please read OPM's code of federal hiring regulations for more details.

 Yes
 No


8.
Were you formerly, but not currently, employed as a Federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) and have you never held the grade or full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility:
You must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.  Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or Career-Conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2);  AND
Appointment is in the Competitive Service (Position Occupied field is 1).
For more information, see Reading your SF-50 to Determine Service and Appointment Type (USAJOBS)...

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you eligible under the Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA)?Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA) is an excepted authority that allows agencies, to appoint eligible veterans without competition. If you meet any one of the following conditions.
You are in receipt of a campaign badge for service during a war or in a campaign or expedition; OR
You are a disabled veteran, OR
You are in receipt of an Armed forces Service Medal for participation in a military operation, OR
You are a recently separated veteran (within the last 3 years), AND separated under honorable conditions (this means an honorable or general discharge), you are VRA eligible.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Financial Management Specialist position.
 I have a LL.M or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field ; OR three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, which demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the duties of this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the federal service performing such duties as: assisting with financial disbursement activities such as processing and or reviewing expenditures of appropriations, allotments, reimbursable accounts; researching analyzing and interpreting financial polices, laws, rules, and regulations and reviewing travel authorizations and vouchers for accuracy and validity.
 I have a combination of education and experience that may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 54. Add the two percentages.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. These questions assess your technical proficiency in federal financial management, including the certification of payments, internal controls, and the synthesis of accounting data into actionable recommendations. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.



1.
As a Financial Management Specialist responsible for approving and certifying payments, you encounter a high-dollar invoice that matches a valid obligation but lacks a specific receiving report or evidence of performance in the financial system. Which action best fulfills your fiduciary responsibility as a Certifying Officer?

 Certify the payment immediately to avoid Prompt Payment Act interest penalties, assuming the program office will upload the documentation later.
 Reject the invoice and request that the vendor resubmit it with a higher discount rate to offset the administrative delay.
 Withhold certification and proactively coordinate with the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) to verify that goods or services were received and accepted in accordance with the terms of the obligating document.
 Delegate the certification to a junior technician to mitigate personal liability for the transaction.


2.
An internal review of travel expense management reveals a trend of employees requesting reimbursement for luxury Uber & Lyft services, how would you respond to the findings?

 Update the travel policy to explicitly forbid luxury modes of transportation and implement an automated flag in the travel system to identify vouchers that appear to be part of a single trip.
 Ignore the trend as long as the total travel budget is not exceeded and all individual vouchers are under the threshold.
 Personally approve all future travel vouchers for the entire agency to ensure 100\% compliance.
 Recommend that the travel department switch to a paper-based system to make it harder for employees to submit multiple requests.
 Disapprove the request and explain why the cost is not allowed.
 Request to refer the employee for disciplinary actions through formal channels


3.
When reviewing reports of obligations (such as the Open Obligation Report or ULO list), you find several dormant obligations from three fiscal years ago that still have remaining balances. What is the most appropriate recommendation to provide to management?
 Leave the funds as they are to serve as a "cushion" for unforeseen expenses in the current year.
 Direct the immediate de-obligation of all dormant funds without consulting program managers to maximize the return of expired funds to the Treasury.
 Perform a validation exercise with program officials to determine if the underlying requirement is complete, then process de-obligations for excess funds to improve the accuracy of the agency’s financial position.
 Re-classify the old obligations as "current year" expenses to simplify the reporting process.


4.
You are developing findings and recommendations following a review of an accounting record that showed significant non-compliance with the Anti-Deficiency Act (ADA). Which approach ensures your report is professional and effective?
 Focusing only on naming the individuals who made the error to ensure they are disciplined.
 Providing a clear description of the condition, the criteria (law/regulation) that was violated, the root cause of the breakdown, and a constructive recommendation for strengthening internal controls.
 Writing the report in highly technical jargon to limit the understanding of the findings to only the finance department.
 Recommending that all financial authority be centralized under your specific desk to prevent future errors.


5.
A new federal regulation changes the way accrued expenditures are recognized for service-based contracts. As a Financial Management Specialist, how should you adapt the current accounting process?
 A. Continue using the old method until the financial system is automatically updated by the software vendor.
 B. Analyze the new regulation, assess the impact on current contract portfolios, and advise leadership on necessary changes to the accrual logic and reporting templates.
 C. Request a permanent waiver from the regulation citing the complexity of the agency's existing contracts.
 D. Ask the program managers to decide how they want to record their own accruals.


6.
During a high-level briefing, a senior leader asks why a specific financial management report shows a significant increase in "unliquidated obligations" compared to the prior month. What is the most helpful response?
 State that the financial system is likely experiencing a glitch and the data should be disregarded.
 Provide a breakdown of the timing of new contract awards versus the lag in invoice processing, highlighting specific large-scale projects that drove the increase.
 Deflect the question to the budget formulation team, as they are responsible for the original funding.
 Inform the leader that fluctuations in unliquidated obligations are confidential and cannot be discussed in a group setting.


7.
The office is experiencing a major backlog for invoice processing. There is a deadline set for approving invoices. Later in the day after approving several invoices you believe you have approved an erroneous payment earlier. What would be your next course of action?
 Note the error in the tracking log and deduct the overpayment amount from the vendor’s next scheduled invoice to balance the accounts.
 Immediately notify your supervisor and attempt to stop or void the payment before it is processed by the Department of Treasury.
 Wait until the end of the day to finish the current backlog, then go back to review the specific invoice details to confirm if an actual error occurred.
 Contact the vendor directly to explain the mistake and request that they issue a refund check or credit memo once they receive the funds.
 E. Flag the invoice for the external auditors to review during the next quarterly audit cycle, as the payment has already been approved in the system.


8.
You are tasked with preparing an audit sample package to be presented for internal/external audit. When reviewing the paperwork for the sample, you realize that the support you have located is not sufficient to justify the transaction and may lead to a negative finding from the auditors. What would be your next steps?

 Contact the department or individual responsible for the original transaction and ask them to create a memo or summary justification to include in the file before the auditors arrive.
 Identify the transaction as problematic and select a different, well-documented transaction of a similar value to replace it in the audit sample.
 Conduct a thorough search for the missing documentation in electronic and physical archives; if the support remains insufficient, document the deficiency and report the finding to your supervisor or the audit lead.
 Include the paperwork in the audit sample as-is, assuming the auditor will ask for clarification or more information if they find the current support to be lacking.
 Note on the coversheet that while the physical receipts are missing, the amounts match the general ledger, and therefore the transaction should be considered verified based on the system entry.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙