Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist- Picture Archive Communication System (PACS) Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-13056946-26-QMD Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Dec 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please indicate the highest grade you have held in the Federal government.
I have never held a position in the Federal government.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15


5.
Please indicate dates of the highest grade you have held in the Federal service (if applicable).


6.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist, Picture Archive Communication System (PACS) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: DRT's must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407 (d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include Computed Tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently. Advanced certification indicates that the applicant can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT)(R)?

Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a DRT on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the DRT occupation. May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).
 Yes
 No


3.
Education: Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school Diagnostic Radiologic Technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)? NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.
 Yes
 No


4.
Experience: Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-10) directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies needed to provide services as a PACS Technologist? In addition, can you demonstrate all of the following technical Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs?)

i. Knowledge of contingency plans during equipment downtimes.
ii. Ability to act as liaison for Radiology with biomedical engineering and OI&T.
iii. Ability to develop methods and programs to evaluate, monitor, and maintain digital imaging and voice recognition systems.
iv. Ability to lead a team of multidisciplinary members in accomplishing strategic planning and integration of PACS and network elements.
v. Ability to perform complex system administrator functions such as: oversight of RIS (Hospital Information System/Radiology Information System) links, AE titles, individual and user group creation and access management, etc.
vi. Knowledge of VA and other national guidelines pertaining to PACS network, VistA imaging, and database security.
vii. Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures so he/she will be able to perform and reconcile image information correctly and efficiently during technical post processing and evaluation.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙