Position Title
Program Specialist (Recent Grad)
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-12943713-26-TH-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree, or a certificate from a qualifying educational institution within the previous 2 years?

-OR-

Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying career or technical education program that awards a recognized postsecondary credential (such as a Registered Apprenticeship Program or Job Corps) within the previous 2 years?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide at least one or more of the following:
transcript (official or unofficial);
a copy of the diploma (if applicable); or
other written documentation from the educational institution or career and technical education program.
-OR-

Are you veteran, who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period described above? Note: A veteran's eligibility period may not extend beyond 6 years from the date on which the individual completed the requirements of an academic course of study or career or technical education program.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
a copy of your transcripts; and
a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


Assessment 1
The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.

**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your transcripts in order to receive credit.  Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration.  Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.


1.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0301-07, Program Specialist (Recent Grad).

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your degree/transcripts in order to receive credit.  Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration.  Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service, obtained in either the private or public sector, which includes: (1) Performing administrative support duties related to health issues AND (2) Developing materials to present ideas, conclusions or recommendations.
 I possess 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision; Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: • (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; OR • (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR • (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/).
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience. (Combinations of successfully completed education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements as specified above. May be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not have the any of the specialized experience, graduate level education/SAA, or combination of graduate level education and experience as described above.


2.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0301-09, Program Specialist (Recent Grad).

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your degree/transcripts in order to receive credit.  Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration.  Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service, obtained in either the private or public sector, which includes: (1) Developing, reviewing or advising on the preparation of formal documents (e.g., financial management, budget submissions, or program/policy guidance; (2) Coordinating incoming data requests to disseminate information on technical requirements and suspense dates; AND (3) Reviewing or analyzing the formulation or execution of a budget.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree in an accredited or pre-accredited college or university; or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or possession of a LL.B. or J.D degree, if related. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have a combination of education and experience as listed above. (Combinations of successfully completed education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements as specified above. May be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not have the any of the specialized experience, graduate level education/SAA, or combination of graduate level education and experience as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙