Position Title
Review Appraiser
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASK-12979392-26-DCA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Saint Paul, MN
 E. Nashville, TN
 F. Houston, TX
 G. Roanoke, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Review Appraiser position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for the Review Appraiser, GS-1171-09/11 positions.
Choose one statement that best describes your experience and/or education for this position.
Your responses are subject to verification.
Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience, which qualifies you for the Review Appraiser position at the GS-09 level? Select only one response.
 I possess one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level within the Federal or other service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: (a) analyzing and/or reviewing residential real estate appraisals completed for mortgage loans, (b) experience gained through real estate sales and/or experience in the residential mortgage lending industry.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B or J.D., if related from an accredited college or university.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in “A” and education as described in “B” which totals at least 100%.
 My experience and/or education is not described above. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-09 grade level.


2.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience, which qualifies you for the Review Appraiser position at the GS-11 level? Select only one response.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level within the Federal or other service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: (a) performing quality-control reviews and/or post audit reviews of appraisals prepared by lenders and appraisers; (b) applying federal, state, and local laws, policies and regulations associated with underwriting home and/or commercial loans, AND (c) applying technical knowledge of real property requirements and the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) guidelines for the origination and liquidation of government guaranteed home loans.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related from an accredited college or university.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in “A” and education as described in “B” which totals at least 100%.
 My experience and/or education is not described above. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-11 grade level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙