Position Title
Licensing Assistant
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12968367-26-EM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Rockville, MD
 B. Arlington, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
9
10
11


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-08 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-8 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-07 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement


2.
GG-9 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-9 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-08 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement


3.
GG-10 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-09 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement


4.
GG-11 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-10 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙