Position Title
Supervisory Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-13033162-26-RLM Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes, I possess the required education stated above and have included a copy of my transcript.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed by the VHA as a Registered Respiratory Therapist on the effective date of the qualification standard (March 12, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
LICENSURE: Do you possess a valid, current, and unrestricted license as a Registered Respiratory Therapist in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the United States, or District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


4.
CREDENTIAL: Do you possess current, unrestricted credential of Registered Respiratory Therapist granted by the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC)?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-13 Experience: Candidates must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-12 level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level, hold an active license and RRT credential.

Experience is only creditable if credentialed as a Certified Respiratory Therapist (CRT) or Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT), the experience is in respiratory care, pulmonary function testing or polysomnography and directly related to the position being filled. To be creditable, the experience must have demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with current practice in paid employment as a CRT or RRT.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs: 
1. Ability to assist in establishing a completely integrated patient care program.
2. Ability to organize work, delegate task, evaluate performance, manage fiscal matters and meet multiple deadlines
3. Ability to supervise and manage subordinate employees. 
4. Skill in interpersonal relationships including conflict resolution. 
5. Ability to establish and monitor standards and priorities for production and patient care. 
6. Skill in recommending improvements to operations based on evaluation of data. 

At the GS-13 level, This Supervisory RRT assignment is designated as the Chief. They manage complexity level 3 facilities whose work involves providing respiratory and related care in the facilities whose work involves providing respiratory and related care in the facility or at multiple sites. These facilities may offer specialty care and services and may be affiliated with academic institutions. Supervisory RRTs at this grade in this assignment manage and supervise all aspects of respiratory care including clinical practice, program management, education, human resources management and supervision of the service. They manage staff members, assess the needs of patients and delegate tasks appropriately. They advice leadership on policy implications, key issues and relationship to both internal and external interest groups and recommend courses of action. They maintain interdepartmental relations with other services to accomplish medical center goals. They coordinate and negotiate resolutions to complex problems. They participate in the audit of respiratory care, identify opportunities for performance improvement and recommends changes where indicated. Supervisory RRTs maintain established departmental policies and  procedures, objectives and quality assurance programs. They participate, identify and develop opportunities for performance improvement. They ensure compliance with regulatory requirements (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Joint Commission, Core Measures). They participate in respiratory teaching and training. They assess and evaluate staff qualifications and competency upon employment and on an ongoing basis. They recommendation appointments, advancements and disciplinary actions, when appropriate. They represent the department at interdisciplinary meetings and on facility level committees and represent the facility to VISN-level leadership. 


Do you meet the above requirements? This must be documented in sufficient detail on your resume. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 Yes, I do meet this requirement.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


RESUME REMINDER:  Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications


Transcript Reminder: This position has formal education requirement. You MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙