Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13022402-26-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
10
11


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


Assessment 1
1.
GG-9 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-9 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-08 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include experience providing foundational administrative support, including managing calendars and meetings, formatting correspondence, routing controlled actions, maintaining office records, supporting front office inquiries, preparing travel, applying security protocols with guidance, and suggesting basic workflow improvements.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
GG-10 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-09 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include experience independently managing complex schedules and high visibility meetings; preparing, editing, and finalizing correspondence and controlled documents; reviewing materials for coordination and accuracy; standardizing administrative practices across offices; training staff; liaising with senior stakeholders; coordinating domestic and international travel; handling sensitive information under policy; and improving administrative processes.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
GG-11 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-10 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include experience providing executive level support, independently managing strategic schedules and engagements; producing high level briefings and decision materials; reviewing sensitive/pre decisional content for alignment; overseeing agency wide administrative workflows; serving as primary point of contact for executive stakeholders; leading domestic/international travel planning with clearances and briefing materials; handling classified/controlled information with expert judgment; and identifying systemic improvements across administrative operations
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙