Position Title
Lead Electronics Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12832307-26-YS Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 24, 2025 to Friday, November 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


The following two narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the Lead Electronics Technician. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


NOTE: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to the specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received that copied verbatim from the announcement will be evaluated and may be reviewed as falsifying your experience or application.


1.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR) SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION AND TRAINING: Do you have the specialized experience or education/training to be eligible for the position?
 Work as a technician, instructor, inspector, or mechanic (civilian or military) that showed progression in theoretical and practical knowledge of electronic theory, and of the characteristics, function, operation, and capabilities of a variety of types of electronic equipment. This experience must have included the use of schematic diagrams, a variety of test equipment, and the application of appropriate electronic formulas involved in such duties as testing, troubleshooting, modifying, designing, calibrating, installing, maintaining, repairing, constructing, developing, and instructing on electronic equipment, or similar functions. Experience in developing policies, standards, and procedures for maintenance, installation, or similar functions, provided the work clearly shows that the applicant applied a specialized knowledge of the theories and principles of a variety of electronic systems or equipment.
 Successful completion of (a) all the requirements for a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering, electronics engineering, or electronics technology, or (b) 3 years of study in an accredited (by the Accreditation Board of Engineering and Technology, Inc. (ABET) curriculum in electronics, or (c) a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree that included major study or at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as engineering, physical science, technology, or mathematics. At least 12 of the 24 semester hours must have been in electronics courses.
 I do not possess any of the IOR stated above and therefore; I am not eligible for the position.


2.
GS-11 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Do you have one year of specialized experience or education equivalent the next lower grade GS-10 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I have one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-10) in the Federal Service that has given you the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of a Lead Electronics Technician and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Specialized experience includes: Distributes and balances the workload among employees and established workflow or job specialization, maintain records of work accomplishments and time expended and prepare production, Gives on the job training to new employees, analyzes maintenance trends, operating environment, Analyzes and evaluates equipment problems, Investigates, troubleshoots, and diagnoses root cause, respond to other customer service requests, serves as a technical advisor in the purchase of new instrumentation to meet specific needs, and in the implementation of that technology, Serves as a Contracting Officer's Representatives (COR), participates in market research and vendor product evaluations, Coordinates equipment installation, verifies that contract specifications are met, performs initial tests of operability and integration, and deems equipment safe and ready for use, conducts or arranges training, Provides technical advice and assistance to staff on equipment application, suggesting improvements, updates, upgrades, replacements, and/or interfaces based on specific needs, serves as consultant and advisor on construction projects, responsible for the site prep and installation of this equipment, Ensures that electronics equipment continuously meets TJC, VA, CAP, radiation, and other standards, identifies test equipment, tools, and software needed, order parts, supplies, and services, maintaining documented equipment histories in AMES/MERS, documenting all equipment maintenance.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education, that is directly related to the work of the Electronics Technician position, such as electrical engineering, electronics engineering, or electronics technology. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have a combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (1 year above master's degree) and specialized experience, as described above. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience or education stated above


Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements. (Note: If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-10 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level of this position. This grade must have been held in the Federal Service, but may have been in any occupation.


3.
GS-11 TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Please select the response below that most accurately describes you.
 I am currently a GS-11 or above.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-10 or higher-grade level.
 This restriction does not apply to me. For example, I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, or I am applying under a different pay plan (WG, WL etc.)
 This restriction applies to me, but I do NOT meet the requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙