Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
DE-12830920-26-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 21, 2025 to Friday, November 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Glynco, GA
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Arlington, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
Which of the following best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above.


4.
If you selected, "I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above", please provide an explanation. If you provided a response of A above, please type N/A.


5.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes the experience that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience to be found qualified.


1.
Applicants must meet one of the following basic requirements to qualify for the Contracting Series, 1102. GS-12. Select the statement below that best describes the experience you possess to meet the basic requirements for this position at the GS-12.
 I have a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field (You must submit a copy of your transcripts).
 I have at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management (You must submit a copy of your transcripts).
 Exceptions: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12. However, employees must meet specialized experience requirements when seeking another position (You must submit a copy of your SF-50).
 I do not meet the basic requirements for education or exception as described above.


2.
Applicants must have specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have and that demonstrates your ability to perform in this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).
 I have at least one year (12-months) of full-time specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service that demonstrates your ability to: 1) Reviewing procurement request packages for consistency, compliance with applicable various rules, regulations, and policies; 2) Planning, developing, and establishing best contractual strategies for acquisitions; 3) Conducting associated price analysis and market research activities to develop the most effective contract approach; and 4) Coordinating approval processes for the preparation of solicitation and award packages. (NOTE: Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience).
 I do not possess the required specialized experience to qualify for the position.


3.
Applicants must meet one of the following basic requirements to qualify for the Contracting Series, 1102. GS-13. Select the statement below that best describes the experience you possess to meet the basic requirements for this position at the GS-13.
 Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher-level contracting positions, including at least 4 years’ experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the GS-12 level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position. AND a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (MUST SUBMIT YOUR TRANSCRIPTS)
 On January 1, 2000, held a position in the Federal Service in the GS-1102 Contract Specialist series and the position was held at the grade 13 or higher. Applicants must have continually held this occupational series since January 1, 2000. NOTE: To qualify for promotion to a higher grade you will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements for this position. (MUST SUBMIT YOUR SF-50)
 I do not possess the education or meet the exception as described above.


4.
Applicants must have specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have that demonstrates your ability to perform the work in this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).
 I have at least one year of full-time specialized experience at or equivalent to the grade GS-12 in the Federal Service performing duties which include: 1) Analyzing the elements of cost in contractor proposals to make competitive range determinations; 2) Ensuring performance meets requirements and determine appropriate corrective actions for deficiencies; 3) Serving as the main point of contact with contractors to interpret contractual obligations and resolve problems; 4) Preparing pre-solicitation documents to establish a clear understanding of what is required under a proposed contract; and 5) Negotiating contract modifications for work within the scope of the contract.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙