Position Title
Direct Hire Public Notice - IT Specialist (INFOSEC)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12949842-26-RS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Naperville, IL
 B. Rockville, MD


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


4.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
IT Competencies
Select the one statement below that best describes your Information Technology (IT) related experience that meets the following basic requirements: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I have IT-related experience that demonstrates each of the four competencies: (1) Attention to Detail; (2) Customer Service; (3) Oral Communication; and (4) Problem Solving.
 I do not have IT-related experience as stated above.


2.
GG-12 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-12 grade level to include accomplishment of computer project assignments that required a range of knowledge of computer requirements and techniques. Participates in planning, analyzing, developing, implementing, maintaining, and enhancing information systems security programs, policies, procedures, and tools. Prepares and presents information and briefings on information security issues, problems, and projects to management officials and program staff. Applies new IT technologies to participate in developing methods and policies leading to successful accomplishment of organizational requirements. Interprets policies, procedures, and strategies in developing and delivering information security systems and programs to assigned organizations.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-11 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


3.
GG-13 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-13 grade level or equivalent to include accomplishment of computer project assignments that required a wide range of knowledge of computer requirements and techniques pertinent to the position to be filled. This knowledge is generally demonstrated by assignments where the applicant analyzed a number of alternative approaches in the process of advising management concerning major aspects of system design, such as what system interrelationships must be considered, or what operating mode, system software, and/or equipment configuration is most appropriate for a given project.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-12 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙