Position Title
Financial Intelligence Analyst
Agency
Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Announcement Number
26-FinCEN-13046087-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12
13


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
When Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


7.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-13: You must have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

- Identifying and evaluating topics for potential analysis and investigation involving illicit use of emerging payment technologies, cyber-enabled financial crimes (including cyber-enabled financial fraud); AND
- Analyzing cyber threat intelligence, indicators of compromise, malware forensics, blockchain transactions, malicious use of emerging technologies (such as artificial intelligence), law enforcement information, or other financial data in development of written threat intelligence products; AND
- Assessing developments and threats related to cyber-enabled financial crimes or emerging payment systems; OR
- Analyzing large datasets of Bank Secrecy Act information to develop written actionable findings.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Specialized Experience for the GS-12: You must have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

- Composing and briefing analytical assessments on emerging payment technologies or cyber threat topics, in particular, cyber-enabled financial crimes (including cyber-enabled financial fraud); AND
- Conducting intelligence research related to malicious cyber actors' financial networks, tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs); OR
- Utilizing financial and cybersecurity threat tools and data sources to conduct research.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.


2a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Specialized Experience for the GS-11: You must have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:  

- Analyzing segments of financial- or cyber- threat information (such as cyber threat intelligence, indicators of compromise, malware forensics, blockchain transactions, malicious use of emerging technologies, law enforcement information, classified intelligence, or other financial, cyber threat, or technical data) for the production of tactical or strategic studies to counter cyber-enabled financial crimes (including cyber-enabled fraud), intelligence reports, investigative memoranda, evidentiary packages, and other written materials; AND
- Experience with anti-money laundering/countering financing of terrorism, fraud, or big data analytics investigations or policies.

OR you may substitute education for specialized experience as follows:
- Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR
- 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR
- LL.M., if related;

OR you may qualify on a combination of education and experience:
To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-9 level in the federal service, as described above.
 I possess the education requirements as described above.
 I have a combination of both the specialized experience and the education requirements as described above.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above.


3a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Specialized Experience for the GS-9: You must have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: 

- Analyzing segments of financial- or cyber- threat information (such as cyber threat intelligence, indicators of compromise, malware forensics, blockchain transactions, malicious use of emerging technologies, law enforcement information, classified intelligence, or other financial, cyber threat, or technical data) for the production of tactical or strategic studies to counter cyber-enabled financial crimes (including cyber-enabled fraud), intelligence reports, investigative memoranda, evidentiary packages, and other written materials.

OR you may substitute education for experience as follows:
- Master's or equivalent graduate degree; OR
- Two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR
- An LL.B. or J.D., in a field related to this position.

OR you may qualify on a combination of education and experience:
To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


4.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR I have a LL.B., or J.D. in a field related to this position.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described, which together are qualifying for the position.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above.


4a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙