Position Title
FFSP SAPR Victim Advocate
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12975968 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position. Failure to respond to all questions will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Do you have at least one of the following basic education requirements for the Social Science Series, 0101?

I have successfully completed a degree in behavioral or social science; or in a related disciplines appropriate to the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Victim Advocate position.

OR


I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

OR

I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

 Yes
 No


2.
Within which sector or agency do you have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services?
 I have experience providing the above within the Department of Navy (DoN).
 I have experience providing the above within the Department of Defense (DOD), but outside DoN.
 I have experience providing the above within the public sector, but outside DOD.
 I have experience providing the above within the private sector.
 I have experience providing sexual assault and/or sexual harassment victim services within a combination of two or more of the above sectors/agencies.
 I do not have experience with the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have working with sexual assault victims in crisis situations, performing duties such as conducting risk assessments to determine their immediate needs, and evaluating safety concerns and levels of risk?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have providing a wide range of essential support services for victims of sexual harassment and/or sexual assault, such as advocacy services; liaison services; community resources; and post primary care activities?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 4 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have developing and delivering presentations and training?

 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙