Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-13020655-26-CR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 24, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Birmingham, AL
Montgomery, AL
Tuscaloosa, AL
Anchorage, AK
Phoenix, AZ
Prescott, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Fayetteville, AR
Little Rock, AR
North Little Rock, AR
Fresno, CA
Loma Linda, CA
Long Beach, CA
Los Angeles, CA
McClellan, CA
Palo Alto, CA
Pleasant Hill, CA
San Diego, CA
Greenwood Village, CO
Newington, CT
West Haven, CT
Wilmington, DE
Washington, DC
Bay Pines, FL
Eglin AFB, FL
Fort Walton Beach, FL
Gainesville, FL
Miami, FL
Orlando, FL
Panama City, FL
Pensacola, FL
Tampa, FL
West Palm Beach, FL
Atlanta, GA
Augusta, GA
Dublin, GA
Honolulu, HI
Boise, ID
Chicago, IL
Danville, IL
Marion, IL
Peoria, IL
Springfield, IL
Indianapolis, IN
Martinsville, IN
Muncie, IN
Cedar Rapids, IA
Coralville, IA
Des Moines, IA
Dubuque, IA
Fort Dodge, IA
Iowa City, IA
Waterloo, IA
Junction City, KS
Leavenworth, KS
Topeka, KS
Wichita, KS
Bowling Green, KY
Lexington, KY
Louisville, KY
Paducah, KY
New Orleans, LA
Pineville, LA
Shreveport, LA
Togus, ME
Baltimore, MD
Linthicum, MD
Perry Point, MD
Bedford, MA
Brockton, MA
Leeds, MA
Ann Arbor, MI
Battle Creek, MI
Detroit, MI
Iron Mountain, MI
Lansing, MI
Saginaw, MI
Bemidji, MN
Brainerd, MN
Ely, MN
Fergus Falls, MN
Hibbing, MN
Minneapolis, MN
Ramsey, MN
Rochester, MN
Saint Cloud, MN
Shakopee, MN
Biloxi, MS
Jackson, MS
Pearl, MS
Ridgeland, MS
Columbia, MO
Kansas City, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Saint Joseph, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Waynesville, MO
Grand Island, NE
Holdrege, NE
Lincoln, NE
Norfolk, NE
Omaha, NE
Papillion, NE
Scottsbluff, NE
Las Vegas, NV
Manchester, NH
East Orange, NJ
Lyons, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Albany, NY
Bath, NY
Bronx, NY
Brooklyn, NY
Buffalo, NY
Canandaigua, NY
Montrose, NY
Northport, NY
Rome, NY
Syracuse, NY
Asheville, NC
Durham, NC
Fayetteville, NC
Salisbury, NC
Bismarck, ND
Devils Lake, ND
Dickinson, ND
Fargo, ND
Grand Forks, ND
Jamestown, ND
Minot, ND
Williston, ND
Canton, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Columbus, OH
Independence, OH
Kettering, OH
Muskogee, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Altoona, PA
Aspinwall, PA
Butler, PA
Coatesville, PA
Erie, PA
Lebanon, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Wilkes Barre, PA
San Juan, PR
Providence, RI
Charleston, SC
Columbia, SC
Aberdeen, SD
Fort Meade, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Pierre, SD
Sioux Falls, SD
Watertown, SD
Chattanooga, TN
Murfreesboro, TN
Nashville, TN
Dallas, TX
El Paso, TX
Houston, TX
San Antonio, TX
Temple, TX
Salt Lake City, UT
White River Junction, VT
Hampton, VA
Richmond, VA
Salem, VA
Dupont, WA
Seattle, WA
Spokane, WA
Vancouver, WA
Beckley, WV
Clarksburg, WV
Huntington, WV
Martinsburg, WV
Appleton, WI
Chippewa Falls, WI
Green Bay, WI
Hayward, WI
Madison, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Rhinelander, WI
Superior, WI
Tomah, WI
Cheyenne, WY


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Specialist position with the Federal government. Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Applicants must submit transcripts to verify they meet the Basic Requirement for this position. Transcripts must depict your name, the name of the college/university, courses completed, degree, and conferred date. Applicants who fail to submit transcripts that depict all the required information will be rated ineligible.


1.
Basic Requirements: Completion of all mandatory training prescribed by the head of the agency for progression to GS-13 or higher level contracting positions, including at least 4-years' experience in contracting or related positions. At least 1 year of that experience must have been specialized experience at or equivalent to work at the next lower level of the position, and must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the work of the position.

-AND-

A 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree, that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.

Exception: Employees in GS-1102 positions will be considered to have met the standard for positions they occupy on January 1, 2000. This also applies to positions at the same grade in the same agency or other agencies if the specialized experience requirements are met. However, they will have to meet the basic requirements and specialized experience requirements in order to qualify for promotion to a higher grade.

Waiver: When filling a specific vacant position, the senior procurement executive of the selecting agency, at his or her discretion, may waive any or all of the requirements of Paragraphs A and B above if the senior procurement executive certifies that the applicant possesses significant potential for advancement to levels of greater responsibility and authority, based on demonstrated analytical and decision making capabilities, job performance, and qualifying experience. With respect to each waiver granted under this Paragraph D, the senior procurement executive must document for the record the basis of the waiver. If an individual is placed in a position in an agency on the basis of a waiver, the agency may later reassign that individual to another position at the same grade within that agency without additional waiver action.
 Yes, I meet the basic requirements.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Contract Specialist GS-13 work at the level(s) or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 GS-13: I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience includes experience with: Serving as senior or lead Contract Specialist for an agency/department, recommending the appropriate contract type or contract method for the product or service being procured. Providing guidance regarding complex contracts to other Contract Specialists in a contracting office to include firm-fixed price, firm-fixed price with economic price adjustments and cost reimbursement. Providing guidance and training to other Contract Specialists on contract methods to include simplified acquisitions, sealed bidding, negotiations, cost sharing, multiple awards, commercial items and special provisions. Utilizing and training other Contract Specialists on electronic systems for contract writing, contract management, contract reporting, and financial management in accordance with agency/department and Federal (or similar) policies. Negotiating with vendors to acquire products or services or to address technical requirements, cost/pricing, or other terms and conditions. Interpreting and applying Federal laws (or similar), acquisition regulations, policies, contract law and procedures applicable to acquisition and contract administration which includes change orders, supplemental agreements, terminations, claims, and close out of contracts. Establishing and monitoring acquisition milestones to ensure progress toward award. Serving as contract administrator on awarded contracts and conducts post-award conferences to negotiate required changes to contract conditions to protect the agency/department.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙