Position Title
PROTOCOL SPECIALIST
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-27-13081721-MP
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 23, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 9
 11
2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?* NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO .
 Yes
 No
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
Protocol Specialist 9/11 SO 2-Oct-2026
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Protocol Specialist position. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. Read all the statements below completely before making your selection.
 For the GS-11: I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-09) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Assisting with official and/or social functions, visits, conferences, awards, promotions, retirements and Change of Command ceremonies, funerals and memorial services and other protocol-related functions; Working with other organizational specialists in identifying potential program initiatives or special projects that could improve the use of protocol services and resources.
 For the GS-11: I possess 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (such as LL.M.).
 For the GS-11: I have a combination of education and experience that makes up 100% of the required specialized experience.
 For the GS-09: I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-07) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes: Received training in the planning, and execution of the command protocol program to include ceremonies, conferences, briefings, official and social functions, and high level foreign and domestic visits.
 For the GS-09: I have master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related
 For the GS-09: I have a combination of education and experience that makes up 100% of the required specialized experience.
 I do not possess the required experience to qualify for this position.
