Position Title
Supervisory Safety and Occupational Health Manager
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12936044-26-AKJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 16, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-13: Do you have at least one year of specialized experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Experience in or related to safety and occupational health that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Managing safety or occupational health program elements.
Developing and recommending safety and occupational health policy to higher levels of management.
Applying safety and occupational health laws, regulations, principles, theories, practices, and procedures to advise on or resolve technical matters dealing with occupational safety and health requirements.
Developing safety and occupational health standards, regulations, practices, and procedures to eliminate or control potential hazards.
Developing or implementing programs to reduce the frequency, severity, and cost of accidents and occupational illnesses.
Analyzing or evaluating new and existing jobs, processes, products, or other systems to determine the existence, severity, probability, and outcome of hazards.
Designing or modifying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems to control or eliminate hazards.
Inspecting or surveying workplaces, processes, products, or other systems for compliance with established safety and occupational health policies or standards and to identify potential new hazards.
Training of workers, supervisors, managers, or other safety and occupational health personnel in safety or occupational health subjects.
Work in occupational fields such as industrial hygienist, safety engineer, fire prevention engineer, health physicist, and occupational health nurse.
In addition, at this GS-13 grade: experience supervising and/or leading safety and occupational health staff/teams.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


1.
Task: Manage and lead the workforce of Occupational Safety and Health to recognize compliance gaps, assess compliance strategies, resolve environmental deficiencies, minimize risks and utilize staff, equipment and monetary resources effectively.
When leading the Safety & Occupational Health team to close a newly identified compliance gap affecting multiple clinics, the most effective leadership action is to:

 Conduct a rapid gap analysis tied to regulatory requirements, prioritize risk using hazard surveillance data, and assign resources based on impact and team capabilities.
 Avoid intervening until the next external accreditation survey to prevent operational disruption.
 Tell each clinic manager to resolve the issue independently and report back when convenient.
 Send a general reminder memo instructing staff to “review safety policies” without further direction.


2.
Task: Determines staffs training needs and obtains resources for continuing education.
To determine staff training needs for industrial hygiene and emergency preparedness, the most appropriate approach is to:

 Provide the same training to all staff regardless of role or regulatory applicability.
 Conduct a competency-based training needs assessment by role, map requirements to relevant standards, and secure appropriate continuing education resources.
 Poll employees on which training topics they personally find most interesting.
 Defer all training decisions to external contractors with no internal oversight.


3.
Task: Set short and long-range goals, develop strategic plans, leads development and implementation of performance improvement indicators, assigns work based on priorities, instructs employees on technical and administrative matters.
When setting annual goals for Life Safety and Hazardous Materials programs, the best planning action is to:

 Focus only on fire drills because they are the most visible activities.
 Select goals solely based on available budget to avoid resource strain.
 Align goals with regulatory directives, define measurable indicators, and assign work by risk priority and capability.
 Maintain the same work assignments throughout the year even if risk levels change.


4.
Task: Manages and leads the workforce of Occupational Safety and Health to recognize compliance gaps, assess compliance strategies, resolve environmental deficiencies, minimize risks and utilize staff, equipment and monetary resources effectively.
When addressing a recurring environmental deficiency, such as improper waste segregation, the most effective leadership response is to:

 Increase signage and reminders without adjusting underlying processes.
 Perform root-cause analysis, implement targeted corrective actions, and track performance metrics to ensure issues do not recur.
 Redirect all staff to the problem area even if it disrupts unrelated essential risk work.
 Wait for local authorities to identify the appropriate fix to avoid internal responsibility.


5.
Task: Prepares statistical and investigative reports as required by the Medical Center, Network or special task force.
For an OSHA injury trend report submitted to leadership, the most appropriate focus is to:

 Summarize informal staff observations and anecdotal comments.
 Provide lengthy narratives of each incident without analysis.
 Present validated metrics, trend analysis, causal factors, recommended controls, and status of corrective actions.
 Exclude contractor incidents to simplify reporting calculations.


6.
Task: Identifies agenda issues and ensures proceedings comply with requirements.
When preparing the Environment of Care Committee agenda, the best practice is to:

 Skip approval of previous minutes to expedite the meeting.
 Discuss only topics raised by individual managers, omitting performance indicators.
 Include plan reviews, performance indicators, hazard surveillance results, regulatory updates, and action-item follow-up.
 Limit agenda items to housekeeping matters to keep the meeting brief.


7.
Task: Directs surveillance methods and schedules.
The best way to design a hazard surveillance schedule across locations is to:

 Perform inspections only at the main medical center, since most operations occur there.
 Use a risk based frequency covering all settings, ensuring audits align with applicable standards.
 Inspect each area only once every other year regardless of changing conditions.
 Allow each service to decide independently when and how surveillance occurs.


8.
Task: Develops incident intervention strategies.
To strengthen incident intervention strategies, the most effective step is to:

 Increase awareness posters following each incident.
 File incident reports without taking further action.
 Implement controls based on investigation findings, evaluate effectiveness through indicators, and integrate emergency preparedness considerations.
 Avoid tracking recurrences to reduce negative data trends.


9.
Task: Directs Medical Center-wide staff education and training.
The best strategy for delivering enterprise-wide training is to:

 Make all training optional to promote autonomy.
 Provide mandatory, role-specific training across all required topics, verify completion, and assess proficiency.
 Delegate all training to contractors with no internal oversight or evaluation.
 Provide one general annual training session that briefly mentions all topics.


10.
Task: Ensures programs meet diverse cultural and educational needs.
The best approach to ensure training meets diverse learner needs is to:

 Use plain language, culturally competent examples, multiple modalities, and accessibility accommodations.
 Provide training only in written format for uniformity.
 Translate slides but retain all technical jargon.
 Exclude complex topics like ergonomics.


11.
Task: Makes recommendations for compliance.
After discovering deficiencies in fire door inspections, the most appropriate recommendation is to:

 Postpone remediation until after upcoming emergency exercises.
 Install additional signage reminding staff to keep doors closed.
 Advise units not to report minor issues to reduce workload.
 Specify corrective repairs, update inspection processes, assign accountability, and verify fixes through reinspection.


12.
Task: Participates in pre-construction meetings.
During a pre-construction meeting, the best Safety Officer action is to:

 Review contractor safety plans, identify hazards, and establish compliance checkpoints.
 Permit construction to begin before reviewing any safety documentation.
 Focus mainly on scheduling to avoid delays.
 Advise contractors simply to “use common sense.”


13.
Task: Maintains goals for safe workplace and compliance.
To maintain these goals, the most effective action is to:

 Suspend hazard surveillance whenever budgets are tight.
 Track only citations as the main performance indicator.
 Integrate risk-based objectives, regulatory audits, resource optimization, and continuous monitoring.
 Reduce training requirements to minimize staff time away.


14.
Task: Ensures decisions apply and adapt standards.
When interpreting standards for an unconventional clinic layout, the best approach is to:

 Choose the least restrictive standard.
 Delay decisions until updated national guidance emerges.
 Proceed without applying any standards.
 Interpret standards, document rationale, consult experts, and implement controls.


15.
Task: Ensures program results are technically authoritative.
To maintain technically authoritative program results, the best assurance method is to:

 Make revisions based on convenience rather than accuracy.
 Use documented methodologies, crosswalk results to standards, incorporate peer review, and measure outcomes.
 Avoid documentation because expert judgment is sufficient.
 Limit review to a single supervisor to accelerate turnaround.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙