Position Title
Computer Scientist-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-15500203-12928618-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and education required for the position of Computer Scientist, NH-1550-02. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for computer scientist positions. You must submit a copy of your transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 I have a Bachelor's degree in computer science.
 I have a bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science; at least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. All academic degrees and course work must be from accredited or pre-accredited institutions.
 I do not have any education as described above.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of COMPUTER SCIENTIST, NH-1550-02. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application).
 Yes, I have at least one year of specialized experience at the next lower pay band (NH-01) or equivalent (GS-04) under other federal pay systems or in the private sector. Specialized experience is experience performing work requiring the applications such as: engineering, mathematics, statistical analysis, modeling/simulation, and/or other scientific principles, methods, and techniques.
 No, I do not have at least one year of specialized experience at the next lower pay band (NH-01) or equivalent (GS-04) under other federal pay systems or in the private sector.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙