Position Title
Facility & Maintenance Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12815930 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 18, 2025 to Tuesday, December 2, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to accept a "Mission Essential" position. This entails continued performance of duties and responsibilities designated as mission essential functions of an activity.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 50 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) program. The responses provided in this assessment will be used to determine your eligibility and qualifications for the Facilities Maintenance Manager position.

Failure to complete this occupational questionnaire will result in disqualification. All experience claimed must be clearly documented in your resume. If your resume does not sufficiently support the information provided in the questionnaire, the experience will not be credited. Please ensure your resume accurately reflects the duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments that demonstrate your qualifications for this position.


1.
Please select the response below that best describes your education and/or experience? Transcripts must be included showing degree conferred date, if qualifying based on education.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in engineering, industrial arts, property management or business administration.
 I have three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in engineering, industrial arts, property management or business administration and 1 year of specialized work experience in construction trades, management and/or facility surveillance.
 I have a minimum of four years of experience that demonstrates knowledge and experience in applying the principles, methods, techniques and theories of field engineering to oversee the management and administration of facilities and maintenance functions.
 I have a combination of education and experience required for this position.
 None of the above


2.
How many years of supervisory experience do you possess?
 Four or more years of supervisory experience.
 Between one and three years of supervisory experience.
 Less than one year of supervisory experience.
 No supervisory experience


3.
How many years of experience do you have managing budgets and implementing cost control measures?
 Four or more years of experience in managing budgets and implementing cost control measures.
 Between one and three years of experience in managing budgets and implementing cost control measures.
 Less than one year of experience in managing budgets and implementing cost control measures.
 No experience in managing budgets and implementing cost control measures.


4.
How many years of experience do you have writing scopes of work and overseeing projects?
 Four or more years of experience writing scopes of work and overseeing projects.
 Between one and three years of experience writing scopes of work and overseeing projects.
 Less than one year of experience writing scopes of work and overseeing projects.
 No experience writing scopes of work and overseeing projects.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙