Position Title
COMPUTER SCIENTIST (AI INNOVATION LEAD)
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-26-13043177-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current U.S. Citizen applying for this vacancy?

 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Meade, MD
 B. Arlington, VA
 C. Quantico, VA
 D. Stafford, VA


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the response option that BEST describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for this position.

 I have specialized experience sufficient to demonstrate that I have acquired all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-14) in the Federal service and am prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience in computer science theories to design, engineer, and implement complex Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) software architectures within secure, high-impact environments. Experience in Agile methodologies and tools to manage enterprise-level projects, focusing on Minimum Viable Products (MVPs), continuous value assessments, and iterative software releases over traditional waterfall processes. Experience in establishing AI governance frameworks (such as case registries) and ensure compliance with federal standards, including AI NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF) and DoD Responsible AI (RAI) principles. Experience navigating and leveraging the Software Acquisition Pathway (DoDI 5000.87) to vet, acquire, and deploy modern software capabilities within a defense or national security framework. Experience with High-level communication and negotiation skills to liaise with critical external stakeholders (such as the CDAO or industry vendors) and advocate for program priorities to senior military and civilian leaders.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above.


2.
Describe your experience serving as a senior technical authority responsible for establishing Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) governance frameworks. In your response, provide specific examples of how you have evaluated AI security risks and ensured system compliance with federal standards (such as the NIST AI Risk Management Framework, DoD Responsible AI guidelines, or DoDI 5000.87).


3.
Describe your experience leading the strategic planning, engineering, and enterprise-wide implementation of complex software architectures. Provide an example of a time when you had to integrate emerging AI-enabled capabilities into existing infrastructure to solve a unique or novel mission challenge. What was your role, and what was the outcome?


4.
Describe your experience utilizing Agile project management methodologies to direct large-scale technology or AI initiatives. Specifically, explain your approach to defining, managing, and integrating Minimum Viable Products (MVPs) and iterative releases. How did you utilize end-user data and continuous value assessments to refine features and mitigate risks?


5.
Describe your experience representing an organization as a technical expert in high-level interagency forums, coalitions, or working groups. Provide an example of how you successfully negotiated solutions to exceptionally complex technical or acquisition issues with senior internal and external stakeholders (e.g., Chief Information Officers, DoD partners, or industry vendors).


6.
The Computer Scientist, 1550 occupation has specific educational requirements which apply to all positions. From the options below, select the one response which describes your educational background. Education above the high school level must have been completed in a U.S. college, university, or other educational institution that has been accredited by one of the accrediting agencies or associations recognized by the Secretary, U.S. Department of Education. Transcripts are required at the time of application. Failure to provide transcripts with your application will result in your ineligibility for further consideration.
 Degree: Bachelor's degree in Computer Science OR
 Degree: Bachelor's degree with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙