Position Title
Supervisory Chemist
Agency
Consumer Product Safety Commission
Announcement Number
4220LSC-26-20261581049 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you a current CPSC employee on a Career/Career Conditional appointment in the Competitive Service? 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience directing, developing and providing expert advice on research programs that focus on generating analytical regulatory methods for chemicals in products.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


2.
To what extent have you applied scientific/engineering principles to the design or evaluation of consumer products for chemical properties?
 A. Current or most recent employment focused on applying principles to the design or evaluation of consumer products.
 B. Earlier employment focused on applying principles to the design or evaluation of consumer products.
 C. Highest college degree is in a program with an emphasis on consumer products.
 D. Other college degree is in a program with emphasis on consumer products.
 E. One or more completed college-level courses focused exclusively on applying engineering principles to the design or evaluation of consumer products.
 F. One or more completed college-level courses included projects related to the application of engineering principles to the design or evaluation of consumer products.
 G. None of the above


3.
In what specific areas of chemistry, chemical engineering, technology, or engineering involving or related to the chemical analyses of consumer products do you have full-time work experience? (Select all that apply)
 A. Analytical analysis of products for lead, phthalates or other elements or chemicals
 B. Chemical process plant material production operations
 C. Analytical chemistry equipment design, manufacturing and/or operations support
 D. Explosive materials design, analytical measurement and/or manufacturing
 E. Chemical hazards assessment, including chemical migration/extraction testing and/or analyses
 F. None of the above


4.
Please select which of the following describes your experience leading project teams to resolve product problems?


 A. I have no experience in leading project teams.
 B. I have experience in leading a project team of 5 or less people.
 C. I have experience in leading a project team of more than 5 people.
 D. I have experience in leading a multi-disciplinary team of various technical and non-technical fields and professionals to resolve product problems.


5.
Please select the response below that best describes your experience planning and supervising analytical chemistry investigations.


 I have independently planned and conducted complex chemical analyses of unknown samples, including samples unusual to the laboratory in which I performed the work or where significant method modifications were required to perform the analysis. I also have been relied on for the development of new standard laboratory practices for the new types of analyses.
 I have supervised scientists who planned and conducted routine chemical analyses of unknown samples.
 As a major duty of my job, I have supervised scientists who planned and conducted routine and complex chemical analyses of unknown samples including samples unusual to the laboratory in which I supervised the work or where significant method modifications were required to perform the analysis. I have used a Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) to report, monitor and control this type of work. I also have supervised the development of new standard laboratory practices for the new types of analyses.
 None of the above.


6.
Which of the following federal regulations and public laws do you have laboratory experience conducting and/or supervising experiments and conformance testing?
 A. Ban of Lead-Containing Paint and Certain Consumer Products Bearing Lead-Containing Paint
 B. Federal Hazardous Substances Act Regulations
 C. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Section 101, Children's Products Containing Lead; Lead Paint Rule
 D. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, Section 108, Prohibition on Sale of Certain Products Containing Specified Phthalates
 E. Fireworks Devices
 F. Substances Requiring Special Packaging
 G. None of the above


7.
Select all of the statements that describe your program/project management experience.
 A. I negotiated with counterparts in my organization about project requirements, schedules, processes and priorities.
 B. I advised superiors regarding the best course of action on projects by providing implications regarding feasibility, risk, schedules, and resources.
 C. I have provided management with authoritative advice and assessments of the impact of actual or proposed management or congressional actions.
 D. The choices above do not describe my experience.


8.
Choose the answer that best describes your education and/or experience which meets the basic qualification requirements.
 I possess a degree in physical sciences, life sciences, or engineering that included 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by course work in mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics.
 I possess a combination of education AND experience. A 4-year degree with course work that included at least 30 semester hours in chemistry, supplemented by mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and at least 6 semester hours of physics, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙