Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-13046032-26-DES Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


1.
Education and/or Experience. The VHA Occupational Therapist (OT) must meet at least one of the following requirements below:(1) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an OT. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.

OR(2) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field. NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.

OR(3) Master's degree or higher in occupational therapy.

Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.

Foreign Graduates. Graduates of foreign occupational therapy programs meet the requirements if they have a current, full, active and unrestricted license.

Please select the appropriate statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess to qualify for this position. You must provide a copy of your transcripts that reflect the degree awarded and conferred date. Your resume MUST demonstrate the experience required of the position.
 I possess a bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and have two (2) years of experience as an OT.
 I possess a bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and have two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field.
 I possess a master's degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 I am a graduate of a foreign occupational therapy program and I possess a current, full, active and unrestricted license.
 I am a VHA employee in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard and is considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education required to qualify for the position.


2.
Certification. Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your current certification status. You must provide a copy of your professional certification with your application.
 I currently possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.
 I am an OT graduate and do not have a NBCOT certification, but otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements. I understand that I will only qualify at the GS-09 grade level.
 I qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation. (Only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).
 I do not possess the certification required to qualify for this position.


3.
State Licensure. Candidates must possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your current licensure status that qualifies you for this position. You must provide a copy of your state license with your application.
 I currently possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia.
 I am an OT graduate and do not have a license, but otherwise meet the minimum qualification requirements. I understand that I will only qualify at the GS-09 grade level.
 I do not possess the licensure required to qualify for this position.


4.

English Language Proficiency. OTs must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f). Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No



Specialized Experience. In addition to the basic qualification requirements, you must meet the education and/or experience criteria below and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) required of the position. Your resume MUST demonstrate the experience required of the position.


5.

GS-09 Grade Requirements. None beyond the basic requirements.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience or education for the GS-09 grade level.
 I possess the experience or education required for the GS-09 grade level.
 I do not possess the experience or education.


6.
GS-11 Grade Requirements. To qualify at the GS-11 grade level, the following experience must be demonstrated on your resume. Examples of creditable experience include, but is not limited to, the ability to provide assessment and treatment interventions for a wide range of human function systems, and a basic foundation of OT. Education may be substituted for experience at the GS-11 grade level. 

Education or Experience. Completion of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and directly related to the position being filled; OR Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field; OR Doctorate in occupational therapy.

In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: Knowledge of occupational therapy practice; ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment; ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others; skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated; ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing; knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care; knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience or education that qualifies you for the GS-11 grade level.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I possess three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I possess a doctorate degree in occupational therapy and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I do not possess the experience or education.


7.
GS-12 Grade Requirements. To qualify at the GS-12 level, the following experience must be demonstrated on your resume. Examples of creditable experience include, but is not limited to, assessing functional and occupational roles using standardized tools. Modifying standardized and non-standardized evaluation tools. Selecting and providing direct occupational therapy interventions and procedures with routine complexity to enhance safety, wellness, performance in activities of daily living; and instrumental activities of daily living, education, work, play, leisure, and social participation. Understands the theories of treatment in occupational therapy and their proper application through the use of activity analysis, behavioral intervention, frame of references, and therapeutic procedures.

Experience. Completion of one year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice; knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits; ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders; ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients; skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment); ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your specialized experience that qualifies you for the GS-12 grade level.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level and my resume demonstrates the KSAs.
 I do not possess the experience.



Resume Reminder. Your resume must include all of the following information: Job title, description of duties (be as detailed as possible), beginning and ending dates (month and year) of employment, and average hours worked per week. In describing your experience, please be clear and specific so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. The description of duties you performed must be listed under each individual job entry. We cannot make assumptions regarding your experience and qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙