Position Title
Management and Program Analyst (Managerial Cost Accounting/Decision Support System)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13027732-26-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bay Pines, FL
 B. Gainesville, FL
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Orlando, FL
 E. Tampa, FL
 F. West Palm Beach, FL
 G. San Juan, PR


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please select the appropriate response(s) regarding your referral eligibility:
 A. Promotion Eligible
 B. Change to Lower Grade Eligible
 C. Reassignment Eligible
 D. Re-promotion Eligible (previously held grade for at least one year)
 E. Interchange Agreement Eligible (I am in the Excepted Service)
 F. I am a Federal Wage Service (WG/WL/WS) employee
 G. I am not a current Federal Employee
 H. Unsure or this does not apply to me


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of Management and Program Analyst GS-0343-07 target GS-11 for the VISN 8, VA Sunshine Healthcare Network. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Minimum Qualifications: In addition to the time-in-grade requirement, you must meet the following minimum qualifications. From the descriptions below, select the answer that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.


GS-07 Grade Level Requirements.


1.
Please select the appropriate response below that best identifies your level of experience and/or education for the GS-07 grade level. Please be aware that all answers will be verified against the information provided in your resume or by your transcripts provided (if using education for qualifications).
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of this position. Specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Gather, extract and audit data to produce reports utilizing a variety of computer systems such as VistA, Microsoft Office (Access, Excel and Advanced Excel formulas, PowerPoint, Word), Analyze and measure the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of medical center healthcare programs using knowledge of the mission, organization, and operations of VISN 8 facilities, Interpret, adapt, and apply guidelines to resolve gaps in specificity or conflicts in guidelines. OR
 I have successfully completed one (1) year of graduate level education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered as satisfying the 1 year of full-time study requirement. Part-time graduate education is creditable in accordance with its relationship to a year of full-time study at the school attended. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed one year of graduate school education and experience to meet total qualification requirements at the GS-07 level. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR
 None of the above.


GS-09 Grade Level Requirements.


2.
Please select the appropriate response below that best identifies your level of experience at the GS-09 grade level. Please be aware that all answers will be verified against the information provided in your resume.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the federal service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Research technical processing guidelines, support labor mapping, task analysis and job structuring, and determine staff to workload ratios impacting productivity using knowledge of the theory and principles of organizational management, Pull reports containing calculations of means, modes, standard deviations, or similar statistical measures to conduct analysis in productivity, outliers and data integrity issues, Graph findings and recommendations, and flowchart work processes for corrective actions to improve data integrity, Prepare and deliver briefings or educational training to managers on study findings and recommendations. OR
 I have successfully completed master’s or equivalent graduate degree, or two (2) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., in a related field of the position to be filled. Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed education and experience to meet total qualification requirements at the GS-09 level. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR
 None of the above.


GS-11 Grade Level Requirements.


3.
Please select the appropriate response below that best identifies your level of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level. Please be aware that all answers will be verified against the information provided in your resume.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in the federal service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of this position. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Perform detailed analysis of technical information by identifying, quantifying, and evaluation the mutual effects and interrelationships between program goals and accomplishments of both financial and strategic objectives and plans; Prepare, analyze, and report on data in relation to the national managerial cost accounting system using knowledge of accounting theories, techniques, methods, and experience using accounting systems such as VHA financial management systems payroll systems, health administration systems and clinical software packages. OR
 I have successfully completed a Ph. D or equivalent doctoral degree, or three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., in a related field of the position to be filled. Education at this level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed education and experience to meet total qualification requirements at the GS-11 level. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. OR
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙