Position Title
Construction Control Representative
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12828209-26-CMS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 7, 2025 to Wednesday, November 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please select the appropriate response(s) regarding your referral eligibility:
 A. Promotion Eligible
 B. Change to Lower Grade Eligible
 C. Reassignment Eligible
 D. Re-promotion Eligible (previously held grade for at least one year)
 E. Interchange Agreement Eligible (I am in the Excepted Service)
 F. I am a Federal Wage Service (WG/WL/WS) employee
 G. I am not a current Federal Employee
 H. Unsure or this does not apply to me


5.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Construction Control Representative position with the Federal government.


Time-In-Grade Requirement: To be eligible for the GS-11 position applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS-10 grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. To be eligible for the GS-10 position applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS-09 grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
This occupational series (0809) has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR). An IOR is a basic requirement that must be met in order to qualify for the Construction Control Technician occupational series. All applicants, regardless of grade level must meet minimum specialized experience requirements. Examples of qualifying specialized experience includes: engineering aid or technician or surveying technician performing work directly related to construction; construction inspector or construction representative responsible for interpreting plans and specifications, inspecting materials and workmanship, and insuring adherence to safety requirements; supervisor of craftspersons, equipment operators, or mechanics engaged in construction work, provided that the experience involved responsibility for interpreting plans and specifications and inspecting workmanship for adherence to such plans and specifications. Do you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for this occupational series?

 Yes, I possess one of the qualifying criteria of the Individual Occupational Requirement of the position to be filled.
 No, I do not possess any of the above-mentioned required specialized experience.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Construction Control Technician work at the GS-10 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: review specification packages, design drawings, and government cost estimates; assist project manager in document modifications; review and analyze plans to make recommendations to correct deficiencies; participate in design review conferences; skilled in preparing modification documents; review work to ensure no deficiencies exist; negotiate contract modifications; review reports on construction progress; review proposed contract requirements and make recommendations; and knowledge of health and safety regulations. NOTE: While performing at the GS-10 level, it is expected that the incumbent will perform the major functions of the position at the full performance level but with significant oversight.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Construction Control Technician work at the GS-11 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-10 level or pay band in the Federal service that includes performing the following duties: use sound judgment and initiative review specification packages, design drawings, and independent government cost estimates for bid ability and constructability; assist engineer and project manager with preparing modification documents which involve design changes, differing site conditions, variations in quantity estimates, changes in specifications, and drawings, that result from deficiencies encountered during the construction phase; work with established procedures, reviews and analyzes plans and specifications, drawings, designs, site conditions, and proposed construction schedules to determine and recommend actions necessary to correct deficiencies through modification of the contract; participate in design review conferences, review preliminary plans and specifications prior to advertisement for practicability, anticipated physical obstructions, potential construction difficulties, and availability of selected materials; use a variety of guidelines, manuals, and standard reference materials to prepare documentation and sketches of contract changes, estimates of costs for modifications, materials, and equipment, evaluating conditions at the work site, field measurements, computations, and local prices; assure that all work under contract provisions has been completed and that no deficiencies exist that would preclude recommending final payment to contractor; negotiate changes with contractor's representatives and presentation of data as basis for substantiating contract modifications; review correspondences and reports on construction status and progress, tests, administration, and contractor's estimates to make decisions and recommendations relative to most practical methods to accomplish desired results; review and initiate proposed changes in contract requirements and make recommendations for desirability, construction feasibility, and reasonableness of costs; and ensure that workers and the job site are in compliance with all relevant health and safety regulations. NOTE: While performing at the GS-11 level, the incumbent will perform the major functions of the position with a high degree of independence. To be considered for the higher grade level your resume must clearly support the high degree of independence.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙