Position Title
Lock and Dam Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13080611-DHA
Open Period
Oct 02, 2026 to Oct 16, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only RH IMTS0005 13080611 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Lock and Dam Operator, WY-5426-5 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Lock & Dam Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex journey-level lock operator tasks. I am skilled in the independent operation of large-scale lock and dam gates, control valves, and tow haulage equipment. I perform complex preventive and corrective mechanical/electrical maintenance. I can make critical operational decisions during adverse weather, coordinate traffic priorities, and work as a fully qualified operator. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks associated with the operation of lock and dam equipment. I am skilled in performing routine preventive maintenance tasks. I am able to follow operating procedures to perform assignments related to lock operations safely. I am able to signal vessels during entry, direct the maneuver of boats within the lock chamber, and operate gate/valve systems under general supervision. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks associated with the operations of lock and dam equipment. I am able to perform routine preventive maintenance tasks utilizing mechanical or electrical equipment (such as commercial mowers, weed trimmers, pressure washers, chainsaws, and portable power tools). I am able to perform ground maintenance tasks. I am able to learn through on-the-job observation, training, and hands-on work experience. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple repair or maintenance work, or I have received training on the use of basic hand tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
