Position Title
Sexual Assault Program Coordinator (SARC)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12812082 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 20, 2025 to Thursday, November 27, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that best describes how you meet the basic education requirements for the position of Sexual Assault prevention and Response Coordinator?

 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral health, social science or criminal justice, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Must attach transcripts to get credit.)
 I have a combination of education (i.e. equivalent of two (2) years undergraduate credit) PLUS at least four (4) years of experience in victim assistance or advocacy within the military or civilian sector. (Must be listed on your resume.)
 I have no education and experience.


2.
Please select the response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) position. (Must be documented on your resume to get credit.)
 I have six (6) or more years of experience as a Navy Sexual Assault Response Coordinator.
 I have four (4) or more years of experience as a DOD Sexual Assault Response Coordinator.
 I have three (3) or more years of experience as a Navy Sexual Assault Victim Advocate.
 I have three (3) or more years of experience as a DOD Sexual Assault Victim Advocate.
 I have two (2) years of experience as a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
 I have (1) year of experience as a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator.
 I have two (2) years of experience as a Victim Advocate.
 I do not have any experience as a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator or a Victim Advocate.


3.
How many years of experience do you have working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims?
 I have over 5 years of experience working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims as a primary duty.
 I have more than 3 - 5 years of experience working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims as a primary duty.
 I have less than 3 years of experience working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims as a primary duty.
 I have some experience as a volunteer or collateral duty working with either military or civilian, medical, social services, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have providing sexual assault prevention and response training and briefings?
 I have over 5 years of experience in providing trainings or briefings on sexual assault to a military audience.
 I have 3-5 years of experience in providing trainings or briefings on sexual assault to a military or civilian audience.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in providing trainings or briefings on sexual assault to a military or civilian audience.
 I have no experience as described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have as a victim advocate in a sexual assault prevention and response program?
 I have over 3 years of experience, as described above, providing advocacy services to DoD sexual assault victims within the last 7 years.
 I have 3 years of experience, as described above, providing advocacy services to military or civilian victims of sexual assault and/or other crimes.
 I have less than 3 years of experience, as described above, providing advocacy services to military or civilian victims of sexual assault and/or other crimes.
 I have no experience as described above.


6.
How many years of experience do you have entering information in a database or case management system?
 I have 3+ years of experience having utilized the Defense Sexual Assault Incident Database (DSAID).
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience entering case information in a database or case management system.
 I have less than 1 year of experience entering case information in a database or case management system.
 I have no experience with the above.


7.
What is your current D-SAACP/N-AACP Level? (You need to provide the certification number in your resume.)

 I am a current Level IV.
 I am a current Level III.
 I am a current Level II.
 I am a current Level I.
 I hold an expired D-SAACP/N-AACP certification.
 I have never held a D-SAACP/N-AACP certification.


8.
How many years of experience do you have providing staff supervision or project management?

 I have 1+ years of experience with project and personnel management.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with project and personnel management experience.
 I have no project or personnel management experience.


9.
Do you have experience attending and/or participating in a Sexual Assault Case Management Group Meeting (SACMG)? (Must be documented on your resume for credit.)
 I have participated in a SACMG as a Sexual Assault Response Coordinator.
 I have participated in a SACMG as a Victim Advocate.
 I have participated in a SACMG but not as a SARC or Victim Advocate.
 I have never participated in a SACMG.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙