Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst (Project Officer-Environment, Safety, Health & Radiological Controls)
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
26-NRLFO-15-12952260-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a PROMOTION to a position with a higher grade/pay band or higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis?

Note: also select "Yes" if applying for a change-to-lower grade (CTLG) to a position with higher promotion potential than you previously held on a permanent basis.

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career/career-conditional federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a REASSIGNMENT, CHANGE-TO-LOWER GRADE, or REPROMOTION and you currently or previously held a position with the same grade/pay band or higher and the same or higher promotion potential on a permanent basis?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Program Analyst, NQ-0343-04, position. Please provide an answer for all questions.


1.
To meet the minimum qualification requirements at the NQ-04 level (GS-15), select the option that best describes your experience.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the NQ-03 pay band or GS-14 level as described in the qualification requirements section of the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.


2.
Please identify the position and time period (include the month/year) which reflects this experience.



3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my application not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙