Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Officer) High Complexity District/Zone AFMO
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-FIRE-P3VA-DZAFMOH-89DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 10, 2026 to Mar 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Nogales, AZ
 AB. Safford, AZ
 BC. Tusayan, AZ
 BU. Acton, CA
 BV. Adin, CA
 BW. Alpine, CA
 BX. Alturas, CA
 BY. Beckwourth, CA
 BZ. Big Sur, CA
 CA. Bishop, CA
 CB. Camino, CA
 CC. Camptonville, CA
 CD. Canby, CA
 CE. Chester, CA
 CF. Chico, CA
 CG. Corona, CA
 CH. Doyle, CA
 CI. Dunlap, CA
 CJ. Fall River Mills, CA
 CK. Fawnskin, CA
 CL. Fillmore, CA
 CM. Forest Ranch, CA
 CN. Foresthill, CA
 CO. Fort Jones, CA
 CP. Frazier Park, CA
 CQ. Gasquet, CA
 B. Georgetown, CA
 C. Glendora, CA
 D. Greenville, CA
 E. Groveland, CA
 F. Happy Camp, CA
 G. Hat Creek, CA
 H. Hathaway Pines, CA
 I. Idyllwild, CA
 J. Kernville, CA
 K. King City, CA
 L. Klamath River, CA
 M. Lytle Creek, CA
 N. Macdoel, CA
 O. Mad River, CA
 P. Mammoth Lakes, CA
 Q. Manzanita Lake, CA
 R. McCloud, CA
 S. Mi-Wuk Village, CA
 T. Mineral, CA
 U. Mount Shasta, CA
 V. Nevada City, CA
 W. North Fork, CA
 X. Oakhurst, CA
 Y. Ojai, CA
 Z. Old Station, CA
 AA. Orleans, CA
 AC. Oroville, CA
 AD. Pinecrest, CA
 AE. Pioneer, CA
 AF. Pollock Pines, CA
 AG. Prather, CA
 AH. Quincy, CA
 AI. Ramona, CA
 AJ. Red Bluff, CA
 AK. Redding, CA
 AL. San Fernando, CA
 AM. Santa Barbara, CA
 AN. Santa Maria, CA
 AO. Sierraville, CA
 AP. Springville, CA
 AQ. Stonyford, CA
 AR. Susanville, CA
 AS. Truckee, CA
 AT. Tulelake, CA
 AU. Upper Lake, CA
 AV. Weaverville, CA
 AW. Willow Creek, CA
 AX. Willows, CA
 AY. Boulder, CO
 AZ. Dolores, CO
 BA. Idaho Springs, CO
 BB. Lake George, CO
 BD. McCall, ID
 BE. Mio, MI
 BF. Oscoda, MI
 BG. Elko, NV
 BH. Ely, NV
 BI. Espanola, NM
 BJ. Cave Junction, OR
 BK. Hines, OR
 BL. Prineville, OR
 BM. Sisters, OR
 BN. Duchesne, UT
 BO. Moab, UT
 BP. Monticello, UT
 BQ. Big Piney, WY
 BR. Laramie, WY
 BS. Pinedale, WY
 BT. Saratoga, WY


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Responses are optional, but each essay response field requires text to be entered to allow you to submit your application. Type "N/A" if you choose not to respond to any of the next four essay questions.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.


1.
Do you have experience performing on-the-line (Primary/Rigorous) wildland fire suppression duties as a member of an organized fire suppression crew or comparable unit that utilized knowledge of wildland fire suppression, containment or control techniques and practices under various conditions? This experience must be documented with specific dates in the online application or resume.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirement of Division Group Supervisor (DIVS) and Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3) OR Prescribed Fire Burn Boss Type 2 (RXB2) -OR- Primary NWCG Core Requirement of Air Support Group Supervisor (ASGS) and the Secondary NWCG Core Requirement of Incident Commander Type 3 (ICT3)? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application.

 Yes
 No


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience for the GW-08 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Officer) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-07 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Assisted in the development of fire control plans and documentation relating to fire pre-suppression, prevention, detection, and suppression tactics and strategies; Prepared fuels hazard and wildland fire risk assessments; Assisted in the coordination and execution of wildland fire suppression and prescribed burning operations.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience for the GW-09 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Fire Management Officer) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-08 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Assisted in management of a broad range of fire programs such as preparedness, prevention, prescribed burning, monitoring, and hazardous fuels reduction; Assisted in writing and executing wildland fire management plans, prescribed burn plans, and preparedness plans; Assisted in determining annual pre-suppression and suppression needs.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


5.
Promote and support a positive work environment to create a climate of mutual respect and integrity.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have received education or training on this task but have no experience.
 I practice behaviors that support this task. When I observe behaviors that are not in alignment with this task, I follow established protocols.
 I promote and model behaviors in support of this task to foster a positive work environment.
 I promote and model behaviors in support of this task and set the tone for creating a positive work environment. I educate others on expectations and procedures in support of this task.


6.
Reinforce to others that offensive, harassing, and intimidating behavior will not be tolerated.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have received education or training on this task but have no experience.
 I practice behaviors that support this task. When I observe behaviors that are not in alignment with this task, I follow established protocols.
 I promote and model behaviors in support of this task to foster a positive work environment.
 I promote and model behaviors in support of this task and set the tone for creating a positive work environment. I educate others on expectations and procedures in support of this task.


7.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙