Position Title
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12889330-AR-26-041 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Logistics in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Logistics in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level that provided experience planning, reviewing, revising and overseeing supply programs; the ability to develop, interpret and advise others on the overall supply function; extensive administrative, regulatory, or other work experience in conducting and analyzing surveys and studies related to supply work; and progressive knowledge and ability to manage overall programs for supply operations?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such degree?
 Yes
 No


3.
In detail, explain your experience formulating and implementing comprehensive logistics support plans, policies and logistics operations support.


4.
In detail, explain your experience initiating equipment redistribution guidance.


5.
In detail, explain your experience consolidating all logistics readiness indicators to formulate an assessment of the command logistics readiness of the state.


6.
In detail, explain your experience developing, staffing and implementing logistics plans for material fielding, mission support and mobilization.


7.
In detail, explain your experience analyzing, directing and providing command logistics guidance.


8.
In detail, describe your experience analyzing and managing a comprehensive knowledge management program, including the methodologies you used to assess organizational needs, the strategies you implemented.


9.
In detail, explain you experience planning, organizing, directing, and managing supply and services functions for the command, including the management, control, and distribution of expendable inventory and accountability of equipment property.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙