Position Title
Transportation Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12908095-26-KR Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 16, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your specialized experience and/or education to meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-6: I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-05) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Transportation Assistant? Qualifying specialized experience includes preparing written instructions and a variety of correspondence; performing data entry into an automated system; scheduling appointments and admissions; collecting, compiling, and tracking of data; and ensuring compliance with regulations and procedures.
 I do not meet the specialized experience described above.


Assessment 2
The following statements pertain to Administration and Management (Knowledge of planning, coordination, and execution of business functions, resource allocation, and production.).


1.
Task: Planning, organizing, and administering how the work will be accomplished for a specific program.
In planning, organizing, and administering how the work will be accomplished for a specific service program, the primary objective is to:

 Conduct quarterly budget reviews to identify cost savings and report only to the executive-level financial authority.
 Ensure the program's operations are effectively aligned with high-level organizational mandates and foster collaboration to achieve core service goals.
 Redesign the organization's entire information technology infrastructure system.
 Set the daily schedules and manage the leave requests for all subordinate staff members.


2.
Task: Planning and directing programs that provide support services functions.
Planning and directing support services functions primarily involves considering which combination of the following operational areas?

 Establishing the final disciplinary protocol for staff that violate internal administrative policy.
 Systems management, workload forecasting/demand analysis, and resource maintenance and repair.
 Setting clinical practice standards for patient care specialists.
 Negotiating all contracts with external vendors for every service provided to the organization.


3.
Task: Validating program workload and ensure reporting is accurate.
To ensure accurate reporting when validating program workload, the program coordinator must specifically verify the captured workload data against which source documentation?

 Customer relationship management (CRM) system entries for customer service requests.
 Detailed transactional extracts from the accounting or internal cost management system.
 Human Resources data detailing the total number of staff employed in the program.
 The organization's scheduling system reports that document appointment volume.


4.
Task: Provides technical and management guidance necessary to achieve the optimum use of service resources.
When providing technical and management guidance to achieve the optimum use of service resources, the guidance is primarily directed toward:

 Creating the official position descriptions for all entry-level service staff.
 Enforcing the company?s policy on employee background checks.
 Personally conducting all complex equipment maintenance and ordering replacement parts for the entire fleet.
 Advising operating managers and supervisors on how available support services can best assist in accomplishing their departmental missions.


5.
Task: Coordinating daily operations of program flow, processes, and functions.
The primary outcome of coordinating the daily operations of program flow, processes, and functions within a support service organization is to:

 Redefine the organization?s overall strategic mission for the coming fiscal year.
 Immediately resolve all scheduling conflicts with external contractors and partners.
 Document all changes to the department?s governing regulatory standards as they are announced.
 Ensure clients/patients are processed and transported in a safe, timely, and compliant manner.


The following statements pertain to Auditing (Knowledge of generally accepted auditing standards and procedures for conducting financial and compliance, economy and efficiency, and program results audits.).


6.
Task: Performing basic analysis of data and generating a variety of reports.
When performing basic analysis of data and generating reports, the program coordinator should use the results to primarily track what aspect of the program?

 The current interest rates for commercial vehicle loans.
 The individual certification status and training requirements of each service driver.
 Progress toward key service project milestones, primary performance measures, and longitudinal program trends.
 The total number of personnel required to cover all service routes across the operating region.


7.
Task: Aggregating in-coming data from a variety of sources.
To effectively aggregate in-coming data from a variety of sources, the Assistant must combine data from which three distinct systems for a comprehensive operational review?

 The scheduling system (service volume), the finance system (operational costs), and the tracking system (mileage/utilization).
 Vehicle licensing records, driver personnel files, and office coffee supply inventory.
 Client demographic data, appointment schedules, and client satisfaction surveys.
 Historical weather data, current traffic reports, and future road construction plans.


8.
Task: Collecting, compiling, and tracking data.
When collecting, compiling, and tracking data for a transportation or logistics program, the Assistant should maintain continuous records on:

 Only the total number of unique clients served each month.
 Procedures for drivers to utilize the most cost-effective fueling stations.
 The number of times a vehicle was cited for a maintenance safety violation.
 Vehicle utilization, mileage accrual, maintenance history, and detailed trip logs including date, time, and purpose.


The following statements pertain to Administration and Management (Knowledge of filing, typing, entering data, maintaining records, taking shorthand, and using and completing forms.).


9.
Task: Performing work that involves consulting management, appointment scheduling and admissions scheduling.
The overall goal of performing work that involves consult management, appointment scheduling, and admissions scheduling within a service program is to ensure that clients receive:

 A personalized confirmation call from the Service Chief or senior manager.
 All necessary maintenance on their personal vehicles.
 The correct procedural billing code for their visit is accurately documented in the case file.
 All necessary consultation services and appointments are processed in a timely and coordinated manner.


10.
Task: Reviewing documents, reports and/or applications for omissions and inconsistencies.
When reviewing operational documents and client applications for omissions and inconsistencies, the primary purpose of this administrative task is to ensure:

 The data to be entered into the automated tracking system is complete, accurate, and ready for processing.
 The documents meet the format requirements for the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
 Compliance strategies are immediately developed and implemented by senior management.
 The physical files are correctly placed in the electronic records management system archive.


11.
Task: Maintaining automated system of program-specific data to track items such as service project milestones, progress reports, program trends, performance measures, compliance strategies, etc.
Maintaining an automated system to track service project milestones, program trends, and performance measures is essential because this data is used for:

 Finalizing employee performance appraisals and bonuses annually.
 Determining client eligibility for discounted services.
 Resolving internal conflicts between different organizational service divisions.
 Operational flow improvement, modification of processes, resource justification, and ongoing program evaluation.


12.
Task: Enters information into an automated tracking system.
When entering information into an automated tracking system, the required data is primarily derived from which source?

 The latest version of the organization's accreditation guidelines.
 Aggregated, compiled, and reviewed documentation, such as service applications, trip logs, and sampling plans.
 Verbal discussions held with the department's scheduling and dispatch staff.
 A printout of the regulatory standards governing data security.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙