Position Title
Health and Wellness Coach
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12920613-26-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Health and Wellness Coach candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403 (f). Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirements: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Health and Wellness work in the Federal service. NOTE: If you are using education as a basis of qualification you are required to submit your transcripts in your application packet.
 I possess successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in behavioral or social science or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I possess combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I possess four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not possess any of the above.


3.
Certification: Do you hold a full, current, and unrestricted certification through the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC)?Note: Exception for Non-Certified Health and Wellness Coaches.
(a) Non-certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for certification, may be given a temporary appointment as Health and Wellness Coach under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2).
(b) Non-certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified Health and Wellness Coach at or above the full performance level or other designated occupation with the appropriate training and expertise.
(c) Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted until certification is obtained.
(d) Temporary appointments of non-certified Health and Wellness Coaches may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.
 Yes, I hold a full, current, and unrestricted certification through the National Board for Health and Wellness Coaching (NBHWC) and will provide a copy with my application.
 No, but I meet the exception and understand that if selected, I can and will only be given a temporary appointment (not to be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment) as an entry level (GS-07) Health and Wellness Coach under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2), will only be able to provide care under the supervision of a certified Health and Wellness Coach at or above the full performance level or other designated occupation with the appropriate training and expertise, and will not be eligible for promotion until certification is obtained.
 None of the above.


3a.
Certification Information: Provide the following information regarding your certification:
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


4.
GS-7 Grade Level: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Health and Wellness Coach work at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service. NOTE: If you are using education as a basis of qualification you are required to submit your transcripts in your application packet.
 I possess experience that meets the basic requirements and Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of health and wellness coaching processes and techniques. (b) Ability to promote positive lifestyle choices. (c) Ability to effectively communicate in writing through a variety of modalities. (d) Ability to effectively communicate verbally/non-verbally.
 I do not meet the experience and KSAs as listed above.


5.
GS-9 Grade Level: Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Health and Wellness Coach work at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service. NOTE: If you are using education as a basis of qualification you are required to submit your transcripts in your application packet.
 I possess one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of current research literature related to health and wellness, including behaviors that promote a healthy lifestyle and well-being. (b) Skill in using health and wellness coaching techniques to promote positive behavior change using one-on-one, couple or group modalities. (c) Skill in exercising effective interpersonal communication techniques to develop and maintain strong interpersonal relationships. (d) Ability to assist the client in developing a comprehensive personalized health plan based on a patient's action-oriented goals. (e) Ability to identify resources internal and external to the organization that are necessary for achieving patient overall health and well-being goals. (f) Ability to use information technology (IT) equipment and various/emerging technologies to carry out work responsibilities. (g) Ability to document patient information using appropriate systems.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙