Position Title
CIVIL ENGINEER (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13048737-DE-JBH-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): Bar Harbor, ME

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
{Minimum Education} Select the response which best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.

 I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering, demonstrated by my current registration as a professional engineer by any state, District or Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering, demonstrated by passing the Engineer-in-training (EIT) exam or required written test for professional registration administered by Boards of Engineering Examiners in any state, District of Columbia, Guam or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor`s degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science and including engineering courses specified in option B.
 I completed a bachelor`s degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology, or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision.
 None of the above.


2.
GS-7: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have professional (post degree) experience, graduate education or a combination of professional experience and graduate education. Select the one response that best describes your additional education or experience.
 I have at least one full-time year of professional experience equivalent to the GS-05 (experience I received after my degree): (1) assisting routine engineering analyses; (2) participating in engineering design studies/projects; (3) preparing basic engineering documentation; and (4) drafting/monitoring project plans.
 I have 1 year of graduate-level education in engineering or a related field which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities for this position.
 I have a combination of graduate level education in engineering or a related field and appropriate specialized experience that together meet the qualifying requirements for this position
 I completed a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering
 None of the above.


3.
GS-09: In addition to meeting basic requirements for engineering positions, choose one answer which best describes your experience, education, or combination of professional experience and education in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.

 I have at least one full-time year of professional experience equivalent to the GS-7 level: (1) conducting engineering analyses in the areas of construction management, geotechnical, highway, hydraulics, hydrologic, or structural engineering; (2) creating and/or completing engineering designs; (3) drafting technical documentation of engineering assignments; and (4) performing project management tasks.
 I have 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a masters degree or equivalent graduate degree or I have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree in engineering or a related field which provided the knowledge, skills and abilities for the position.
 I have a combination of graduate level education beyond the first year of progressive graduate study and appropriate specialized experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 I completed requirements of a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelors degree in engineering and have 1 year of appropriate professional experience which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities for this position.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙