Position Title
Staff Assistant
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
345-2026-DKB-13060876-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Staff Assistant with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


Internal to the Facility:

This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Phoenix, Arizona Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Phoenix, Arizona VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE: As a current Federal GS employee, you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.


2.
GS-09: At the GS-09 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-09 or higher grade.
 I have one year at the GS-07 grade or higher.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" and "B".


3.
GS-11: At the GS-11 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year at the GS-09 grade or higher.
 I do not have the time-in-grade as described in "A" and "B".


Specialized Experience: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


4.
Select the ONE response that best describes the level of education or experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Staff Assistant at grade GS-09.

GS-9 Specialized Experience- To qualify at the GS-09 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level or higher. Specialized experience includes (1) ensuring that priorities and deadlines are met on administrative programs and/or projects; (2) establishing and monitoring deadlines; (3) coordinating administrative and quasi-technical correspondence; and handling and shifting priorities of a sensitive nature.

OR

Education: A master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field related to the duties of this position;

OR

Combination of Education and Experience: Applicants may combine education and experience to qualify at the GS-09 grade level. When substituting you can only use graduate level education you have earned.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-07.
 I have Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited institution. NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B or C, however combined my experience and education
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, C, or D above; therefore I am not qualified for this position.


5.
Select the ONE response that best describes the level of education or experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Staff Assistant at grade GS-11.

GS-11 Specialized Experience: In addition to the experience required at the GS-9 level, the applicant must document experience using applying knowledge of administrative concepts, principles and practices in the administrative support of a program office or service line; independently setting priorities, communicating in writing through preparation of written reports, policies, decision memos and/or briefing materials; communicating orally in presenting information to management. Identifying, analyzing and resolving problems without supervisory intervention using tact and diplomacy.

OR

Education substitution of a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree;

OR

Combination of Education and Experience: Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience ( 1) and Graduate level education (2). (To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 9. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 to qualify).
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-09
 I have Ph.D. or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited institution. NOTE: YOU MUST SUBMIT COPIES OF YOUR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B or C, however combined
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, C, or D above; therefore I am not qualified for this position.


CERTIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses to this occupational questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙