Position Title
0327 INSTRUCTOR JROTC (OFFICER, NAVY)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12882388-EX Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Military Spouse Preference (MSP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are the spouse of an active duty U.S. Armed Forces service member and you meet the following conditions:
 
You and the sponsor were married prior to the relocation (before the Permanent Change of Station (PCS)); AND,
You have arrived at the overseas duty station identified on the PCS orders; AND,
Since the relocation, you have not accepted or declined a permanent position at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
You are among the best qualified; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station

**NOTE: Preference can be granted only once per PCS relocation. Once you accept or decline a position, either appropriated fund (AF) or non-appropriated fund (NAF) at the new duty station, your eligibility for preference terminates whether or not preference was applied.

CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE FAMILY MEMBER APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who are currently assigned to an excepted service Schedule A family member position at an overseas location, and the position applying to is in the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station. If you are eligible in this category, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 a "3" AND block 34 reflecting a "2."

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of the service member's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse to accompany the member to the permanent duty station (if the spouse is not listed on the orders, then a command sponsorship letter must be submitted), the specific location to which the member is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station; AND verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

Are you eligible for Military Spouse Preference for Overseas Employment?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Instructor JROTC position with Department of Defense Education Activity. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Instructor JROTC in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree.
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Instructor JROTC. You must meet one of the following pathways outlined in 10 USC 2031.
 Retired Officer or Warrant Officer holding a bachelor’s degree whose qualifications are approved by the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such employment.
 Officer or Warrant Officer holding a bachelor’s degree who are separated with an honorable discharge within the past 5 years with at least 8 years of service and are approved by the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such employment.
 Officer or Warrant Officer holding a bachelor’s degree who are active participating members of the selected reserve at the time of application, for purposes of section 101(d) of this title, and have not yet reached retirement eligibility and are approved by the Secretary and the institution concerned and who request such employment.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


3.
Are you certified to teach JROTC? You must provide a copy of your current JROTC certification/letter.
 Yes, I am certified to teach JROTC. You MUST provide the current JROTC Certification/Letter.
 No, I am not certified to teach JROTC.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙