Position Title
Food & Beverage Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12825653 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 27, 2025 to Nov 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 45 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Food & Beverage Manager position at All-American Restaurant located in Naval Base Everett. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  

Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below. 



1.
How many years of general experience do you have in the food, beverage and catering industry?
 More than 6 years
 4-6 years
 2-4 years
 Less than 2 years


2.
What is your overall skill level in Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc.)?
 Expert (Mastery of all features; can troubleshoot problems, automate tasks, and train others)
 Advanced (Proficient in all major features; can use advanced formatting, formulas, and presentation techniques)
 Intermediate (Comfortable with common features; can create documents and presentations with some formatting)
 Beginner (Basic familiarity; can perform simple tasks)
 I have no experience with Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, etc.)


3.
This position will supervise employees in a range of positions from Catering Manager to Custodial Workers. Please share your level of experience in a supervisory position.
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience
 I have 3-5 years of supervisory experience
 I have 1-2 years of supervisory experience
 I have no direct supervisory experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙