Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
P1013- S101-VALA-11869450 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2023 to Mar 17, 2023
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service in an agency covered by an Interchange Agreement with at least one year of service in that position?  

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 F. Phoenix, AZ
 G. San Diego, CA
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Wilmington, DE
 J. Saint Petersburg, FL
 K. Atlanta, GA
 L. Honolulu, HI
 M. Indianapolis, IN
 N. Wichita, KS
 O. Saint Paul, MN
 P. Saint Louis, MO
 Q. Lincoln, NE
 R. Albuquerque, NM
 S. Buffalo, NY
 T. Winston-Salem, NC
 U. Fargo, ND
 V. Cleveland, OH
 W. Muskogee, OK
 X. Portland, OR
 Y. Philadelphia, PA
 Z. Columbia, SC
 AA. Sioux Falls, SD
 AB. Nashville, TN
 AC. Houston, TX
 AD. Waco, TX
 B. Salt Lake City, UT
 C. Seattle, WA
 D. Milwaukee, WI
 E. Cheyenne, WY


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
OCCUPATIONAL QUESTIONS - Mark only 1 response for each question. WORK EXPERIENCE This section asks you to describe your work and other experiences in specific factors which relate to job performance. ALL QUESTIONS MUST BE ANSWERED.


1.
GS-14: I am a current VA or VBA employee in a permanent career/career conditional appointment, and I have at least one (1) year (time-in-grade) at the GS-13 grade level.
 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the Administrative Officer at the GS-14 grade level.


 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience in Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-13 performing multifaceted program of services, management programs, and budget/fiscal and administrative operations for a federal office. This includes: - Preparing administrative study findings, recommendations, plans and reports. - Providing advice on programs and procedures pertaining to facilities, budgets, security, safety, and other administrative program activities. - Presenting position papers and technical presentations to top management or the public involving finance and administrative program issues. - Conducting independent evaluations of finance and administrative functions. - Preparing and monitoring complex budgets and resolving financial management issues.
 My experience is not described in statements A above and therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-14 grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙