Position Title
Social Worker Behavioral Health Interdisciplinary Program (BHIP) Case Manager
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12890489-26-LS Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Social Worker Behavioral Health Interdisciplinary Program (BHIP) Case Manager GS-9/11.

Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.

Grandfathering Provision: persons employed in VHA as a Social Worker on the effective date (9/10/2019) of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held, including positive education and licensure/certification/registration that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, other provisions may apply.


Basic requirements.


1.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English.


2.
Education. Do you hold a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)?

NOTE: (1) Graduates of schools of social work that are in candidacy status do not meet this requirement until the school of social work is fully accredited. (2) A doctoral degree in Social Work may NOT be substituted for the master's degree in social work.
 Yes, I hold a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE).
 No, I do not hold a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE).


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master’s degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Licensure. Are you licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level?

VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure/certification examinations. This exception only applies at the GS-9 grade level.
 Yes, I am licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master’s degree level.
 No, I do not possess licensure or certification as described above and understand I may only be considered for temporary appointment, at the GS-09 level only.


3a.
Please provide your license/certification information. If you are not licensed/certified indicate N/A.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


4.
Drivers License Requirement.
A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?

NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license.
 Yes, I possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license.
 No, I do not possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license.


4a.
Please provide your drivers license information. If you do not have a drivers license indicate N/A.
Name on Drivers License:
Issuing state:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


Grade Level Requirements.


5.
GS-09
The GS-9 grade level is the entry grade for Social Workers and are closely supervised, as they are not yet functioning at the independent practice level conferred by independent licensure or certification.

 In addition to meeting the basic requirements for this occupation, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Ability to utilize a Veteran centric approach when providing interventions and counseling for Veterans, their family members, caregivers, and survivors.
Ability to assess the psychosocial functioning and needs of Veterans and their family members, and to formulate and implement a treatment plan, identifying the Veterans problems, strengths, weaknesses, coping skills, and assistance needed.
Ability to implement treatment modalities in working with individuals, families, and groups to achieve treatment goals. This requires judgment and skill in utilizing supportive, problem solving, or crisis intervention techniques.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships and communicate with clients, staff, and representatives of community agencies.
Fundamental knowledge of medical and mental health diagnoses, disabilities, and treatment procedures. This includes acute, chronic, and traumatic illnesses/injuries; common medications and their effects/side effects; and medical terminology.
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 No, I do not I meet this requirement.


6.
GS-11
The GS-11 grade level is the full performance grade level for a Social Worker who at this level are licensed or certified to independently practice social work.

Do you possess one (1) year of post-MSW experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the field of health care or other social work-related settings, (VA or non- VA experience) and licensure or certification in a state at the independent practice level?
OR
Do you possess a doctoral degree in social work from a school of social work?
 Yes, I possess one (1) year of post-MSW experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the field of health care or other social work-related.
 Yes, I possess a doctoral degree in social work from a school of social work.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


6a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your doctoral degree, otherwise indicate N/A.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


7.
GS-11
In addition to the experience above, candidates must also demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs): 
Knowledge of community resources, how to make appropriate referrals to community and other governmental agencies for services, and ability to coordinate services.
Skill in independently conducting psychosocial assessments and treatment interventions to a wide variety of individuals from various socio-economic, educational, and other backgrounds.
Knowledge of medical and mental health diagnoses, disabilities and treatment procedures (i.e. acute, chronic and traumatic illnesses/injuries, common medications and their effects/side effects, and medical terminology) to formulate a treatment plan.
Skill in independently implementing different treatment modalities in working with individuals, families, and groups who are experiencing a variety of psychiatric, medical, and social problems to achieve treatment goals.
Ability to provide consultation services to new social workers, social work graduate students, and other staff about the psychosocial needs of patients and the impact of psychosocial problems on health care and compliance with treatment.
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


SF-50 Reminder.
If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/resignation SF-50.  This SF-50 needs to  show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title.  A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's.  Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.  Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50.
 
Transcripts Reminder.
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application.
 
Note: Be sure it the following is stated on the transcript: your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, classes taken with grades listed and credits awarded, type of degree, conferred date.
 
Licensure/Certification Reminder.
Please include a copy of your current unexpired licensure and/or certification.
 
Please be sure to submit all required information and documentation before the closing date of the announcement. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙