Position Title
Student Trainee (Program Examiner)
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-13062543-26-MJM-PW
Open Period
Oct 05, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you currently a student currently accepted for enrollment or enrolled on at least a half-time schedule as a student at a high school, accredited college (including 4-year colleges/universities, community colleges, and junior colleges); professional, technical, vocational, and trade school; advanced degree programs (e.g., graduate school, law school); or other qualifying educational institution pursuing a degree or certificate. -OR- Are you currently accepted for enrollment or enrolled in a qualifying career or technical education program that awards a recognized postsecondary credential (such as a Registered Apprenticeship Program or Job Corps). To verify your eligibility, you must provide at least one or more of the following: transcript (official or unofficial); or a copy of the diploma (if applicable); or or other written documentation from the educational institution or career or technical education program (such as a letter confirming enrollment or acceptance into a qualifying educational program). Note: Certificate programs must be one academic year in duration. You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship. You will be required to provide proof of current student status to be eligible for this program. For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree, or a certificate from a qualifying educational institution within the previous 2 years? -OR- Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying career or technical education program that awards a recognized postsecondary credential (such as a Registered Apprenticeship Program or Job Corps) within the previous 2 years? To verify your eligibility, you must provide at least one or more of the following: transcript (official or unofficial); a copy of the diploma (if applicable); or other written documentation from the educational institution or career and technical education program. -OR- Are you veteran, who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period described above? Note: A veteran's eligibility period may not extend beyond 6 years from the date on which the individual completed the requirements of an academic course of study or career or technical education program. To verify your eligibility, you must provide: a copy of your transcripts; and a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources
 Yes
 No
4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
 7
 9
Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed. A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.
3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.
5.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
6.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies within the Executive Office of the President who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
Trainee assessment
1.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0399-07, Student Trainee (Program Examiner) .NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your transcripts in order to receive credit. Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration. Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-05) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that includes: 1. Conducting quantitative and/or qualitative analyses of program, operational or administrative information to identify trends, summarize findings and provide analytical support for a high-volume, fast paced office, 2. Performing clerical tasks such as arranging meetings and preparing correspondence to support a highly functioning office; and 3. Preparing or tracking financial, economic, or other analysis to support program cost estimates.
 I have one year of graduate level education. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours will satisfy the 1 year of full-time study requirement. (Note: If you select this response, you must submit relevant unofficial transcripts.)
 I have a combination of experience as described in "A" above and graduate education as described in "B" above. (Refer to the 'Qualifications' section of the vacancy announcement for instructions on combining education and experience.) (Note: If you are qualifying under this option, you must include your graduate level unofficial transcripts or a list of completed courses with the credit hours received).
 I have a bachelor's degree and meet Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) provision. S.A.A. is based on 1. class standing, 2. grade-point average, or 3. honor society membership. Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of: 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2years of the curriculum. Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society -- Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achshonor.org/). (Note: If you select this response, you must submit relevant unofficial transcripts.)
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education reflected in the above choices.
2.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0399-09, Student Trainee (Program Examiner) .NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your transcripts in order to receive credit. Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration. Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of qualifying specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service, obtained in either the private or public sector, which includes: 1) Analyzing budget and or policy data to spot trends in material being reviewed; 2) Managing projects from initiation to completion; and 3) Presenting results of quantitative and/or qualitative analysis of information to provide support for an office.
 I have 2 years of graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree. (Note: If you are qualifying under this option, you must include your graduate level unofficial transcripts or a list of completed courses with the credit hours received).
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience. (Combinations of successfully completed education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements as specified above. May be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not have the any of the specialized experience, graduate level education or combination of graduate level education and experience as described above.
3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
