Position Title
SUPERVISORY AUDITOR (Title 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
CT-12901090-AR-26-042 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Are you currently a U.S. citizen?
 Yes
 No


Area of Consideration
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Are you currently employed as an On Board Federal Employee (T5), Tenure 0, 1, 2, or 3 assigned to the USPFO within the CTNG with U.S. citizenship?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience.  Mark only one response.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a degree in Accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included - or - was supplemented by 24 semester
hours in accounting?The 24 hours may include up to six hours of credit in business law.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently on board in the GS-0511 series? If so, personnel must be certified at the next higher grade-level before being eligible for grade promotion to that level; and, must have a
minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade immediately below the next higher level.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess at least 48 months of financial audit and/or performance audit experiences that led to objective and systematic examinations and resulted in independent audit assessments of
structure, performance, efficiency, program, activity or function? Do you possess at least 48 months of experience demonstrating expert performance results in applying auditing principles and procedures? Do you possess at least 48 months of experience in audit preparation, planning, conducting, and reporting with a full range of competencies in the auditing business that successfully accomplished intended purposes; met or exceeded operational efficiency; provided accurate, reliable, timely, and useful financial audit data; or demonstrated experiences in conducting audits that involved evaluating financial management in terms of economical use of property and personnel? Do you possess at least 48 months of experience demonstrating adherence to prescribed policies; effective control over expenditures, liabilities, revenues, and assets; proper accounting for resources and financial transactions; compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and precedent decisions; and compliance of agency accounting systems with generally accepted must include audit report preparations and oral presentations that involved significant audit findings and discovered conditions with cause and effect factors? Do you possess at least 48 months of experience presenting researched recommendations for remedial actions, such as addressing methods for improving the use of funds and the identification of questionable costs? Do you possess at least 48 months of experience demonstrating a comprehensive understanding of the principles and concepts of the audit business program requirements? Do you possess at least 48 months of finance and auditor program experiences and training that demonstrated your competencies to lead, train subordinates, follow directions, read, retain, and comply with instructions, regulations, policies and procedures?

In addition to the above, do you possess at least 24 months of broadening finance and audit program experiences in supervising, planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes smooth flow and even distribution of work assignments? Do you possess at the least, Level One or Level Two Financial Management Certification? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience training and guiding employees on finance and audit programs and assigning tasks? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience involving audit program assignments, balancing finance and audit program work requirements, compliance with specific finance and audit program policies, and providing advice, mentoring, and directions on a wide variety career development options? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience in addressing specific employee performance issues? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience in structuring assignments that created effective and efficient procedures with measured and improved task processes? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating improved training applications for career development timeliness considerations, and work efficiencies? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience and/or endorsements on mentorship competencies provided to employees? Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating expert working knowledge of equal employment and affirmative action programs?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess at least 48 months of financial audit and/or performance audit experiences that led to objective and systematic examinations and resulted in independent audit assessments of structure, performance, efficiency, program, activity or function?


5.
Do you possess at least 48 months of experience demonstrating expert performance results in applying auditing principles and procedures?


6.
Do you possess at least 48 months of experience in audit preparation, planning, conducting, and reporting with a full range of competencies in the auditing business that successfully accomplished intended purposes; met or exceeded operational efficiency; provided accurate, reliable, timely, and useful financial audit data; or demonstrated experiences in conducting audits that involved evaluating financial management in terms of economical use of property and personnel?


7.
Do you possess at least 48 months of experience demonstrating adherence to prescribed policies; effective control over expenditures, liabilities, revenues, and assets; proper accounting for resources and financial transactions; compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and precedent decisions; and compliance of agency accounting systems with generally accepted must include audit report preparations and oral presentations that involved significant audit findings and discovered conditions with cause and effect factors?


8.
Do you possess at least 48 months of experience presenting researched recommendations for remedial actions, such as addressing methods for improving the use of funds and the identification of questionable costs?


9.
Do you possess at least 48 months of experience demonstrating a comprehensive understanding of the principles and concepts of the audit business program requirements?


10.
Do you possess at least 48 months of finance and auditor program experiences and training that demonstrated your competencies to lead, train subordinates, follow directions, read, retain, and comply with instructions, regulations, policies and procedures?


11.
In addition to the above, do you possess at least 24 months of broadening finance and audit program experiences in supervising, planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes smooth flow and even distribution of work assignments?


12.
Do you possess at the least, Level One or Level Two Financial Management Certification?


13.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience training and guiding employees on finance and audit programs and assigning tasks?


14.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience involving audit program assignments, balancing finance and audit program work requirements, compliance with specific finance and audit program policies, and providing advice, mentoring, and directions on a wide variety career development options?


15.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience in addressing specific employee performance issues?


16.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience in structuring assignments that created effective and efficient procedures with measured and improved task processes?


17.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating improved training applications for career development timeliness considerations, and work efficiencies?


18.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience and/or endorsements on mentorship competencies provided to employees?


19.
Do you possess at least 24 months of experience demonstrating expert working knowledge of equal employment and affirmative action programs?


20.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, all of the information on the questionnaire and documents attached to this application is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.  I understand that false or fraudulent information on the questionnaire and documents attached to this application may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.   I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


21.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



22.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


23.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


24.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


25.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙