Position Title
Maintenance Work Leader
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH - 26 - 13042114 - DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 45 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Work Leader, WL-4701-10 position with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please select only one letter for each item.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Maintenance Work Leader, WL-4701-10 position.

 I have experience as a crew leader of a maintenance crew. I am able to transmit instructions into working assignments or tasks for assigned crew and set the pace for work accomplishments, and explain and instruct others of same or lower grades to keep work progressing to meet schedules. I am able to inspect, accept or reject work of others, and have experience in journey level tasks in maintenance, plumbing, carpentry and heavy equipment operation. I am skilled in the operation and maintenance of pumping plants and irrigation systems.
 I have experience leading maintenance workers under minimal supervision. I am able to lead and direct, furnishing guidance and instructions when necessary, and explain how and what tasks are to be accomplished. I can perform more difficult tasks without supervision and keep assigned helper(s) busy. I have experience in journey level tasks in maintenance, plumbing, carpentry, heavy equipment operation and experience operating and maintaining pumping plants and irrigation systems.
 I have experience leading a work team under normal supervision. I am able to plan and independently perform tasks in the areas of maintenance, plumbing, carpentry, heavy equipment operation and operating and maintaining pumping plants and irrigation systems. I am able to work as part of a crew and to assume responsibility for leading in the accomplishment of tasks.
 I have performed tasks associated with maintenance, plumbing, carpentry, motor vehicle operation, and operating and maintaining pumping plants and irrigation systems, under close supervision.
 My training or experience is not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙