Position Title
Contracting Advisor
Agency
U.S. Army Cyber Command
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-13056420-CES Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Civilian Employees of the Organization Applying to Cyber Excepted Service (CES) Positions

Do you meet the following?

CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT COMPETITIVE OR EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1" or "2". 

Notes:
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category
*DOD employees can access their SF-50 at: My Biz
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 10% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 10% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
This is a DoD Cyber Excepted Service (CES) personnel system position in the Excepted Service under 10 USC 1599f. Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a CES position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Appointment to this position is subject to a three year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V3005, Cyber Excepted Service, Employment and Placement. While serving a probationary period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a three year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Advisor GG-1101-11 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes directly applicable education and/or experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience may have been acquired in any public or private sector job, but will clearly demonstrate past experience in the application of the particular competencies or knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position. Such experience is typically in or directly related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I have at least 1 year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by developing comprehensive acquisition packages using an Acquisition Requirements Tracker System (ARTS) to ensure full compliance with Federal Acquisition Regulations; Formulating pre-procurement acquisition strategies to support brigade operational readiness; delivering technical guidance to command staff, functional program managers, and stakeholders to resolve complex contract requirement challenges.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as a degree in business acquisitions, marketing, or finance. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 Combination of Education and Experience: A combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages.
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙