Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Employee Benefits)
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-JMW-12948186-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current employee of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; 
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced (CFR 330.702)  from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency?  If yes, confirm you meet all of the following requirements:
 
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is/was equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; 
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent;
It has been less than a year from your separation from Federal service (see ICTAP eligibility period CFR 330.708.)
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Macon, GA
 C. Kansas City, MO
 D. Durham, NC
 E. Boyers, PA
 F. Philadelphia, PA
 G. San Antonio, TX
 H. Norfolk, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
What is the highest grade you have held on a non-temporary basis in the federal service? If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To meet the Minimum Qualifications for a GS-11 you must have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing each of the following duties. Your resume must support your answers in order to be found qualified.


1.
For the GS-11, select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 I possess at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-09 grade level or pay band in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing ALL of the following: 1. Assisting with routine retirement, health, life insurance, savings plan, FSA/HSA, leave, and work-life benefits actions using established guidance; AND 2. Supporting retirement or pension application processing by gathering service history, compiling missing records, checking package completeness, and preparing basic estimate information; AND 3. Participating in employee benefits counseling by explaining eligibility, benefit elections, qualifying life events, unpaid leave, military service, leave options, or required documentation; AND 4. Supporting workers' compensation administration by helping complete claim forms, gathering claim documents, monitoring case information, tracking salary continuation periods, and coordinating with payroll or timekeepers.
 I have completed the requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or completed at least 3 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or LL.M, if related, (for example, human resources, business, public administration, management or other directly related field of study) that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities required to do the work of this position.
 I have a combination of education and experience to qualify at this level. To calculate your percentage of education, divide the number of graduate semester hours earned, in excess of 36 semester hours, by 18. If your education is in quarter hours, convert to semester hours by multiplying the number of quarter hours earned by 2/3rds. To calculate your percentage of experience, divide the number of months of full-time experience by 12. If your experience was part-time, convert to full-time by dividing the number of hours worked per week by 40 then multiply by number of months worked. Add the percentages. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts (official or unofficial) to support your claim.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the statements above and I do not qualify for this position.


To meet the Minimum Qualifications for a GS-12, you must have at least one year (52 weeks, full-time) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing each of the following duties. Your resume must support your answers in order to be found qualified.


2.
For the GS-12, select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.
 I possess at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-11 grade level or pay band in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) performing ALL of the following: 1. Reviewing retirement, health, life insurance, savings plan, FSA/HSA, leave, and work-life benefits cases to determine employee eligibility and required actions; AND 2. Analyzing retirement or pension applications by verifying service history, identifying missing or conflicting records, preparing benefit estimates, and recommending corrections; AND 3. Evaluating moderately complex benefits and workers' compensation issues involving voluntary separation, unpaid leave, salary continuation, leave adjustments, cost reports, or return-to-work actions; AND 4. Recommending process improvements by identifying recurring benefits errors, updating procedures, supporting audits, briefing customers, and assisting junior HR staff.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the statements above and I do not qualify for this position.


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement, and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙