Position Title
Pressman Supervisor
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12907434-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of experience you possess to perform the duties of Pressman Supervisor, WE-4406-13, supervising through subordinate supervisors.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Pressman Supervisor duties. I have had the equivalent of four years of experience as a Pressperson (Journeyman). I have experience performing administrative duties as a supervisor, including handling disciplinary problems and negotiating with unions. I can set plans in place to meet mission requirements for currency production, provide oversight to ensure staffing requirements are met, and encourage and foster an environment where all policies and Safety, Security, Quality, Accountability, and Division procedures are followed. In addition, I recommend selection of new employees.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Pressman Supervisor duties. I have had the equivalent of four years of experience as a Pressperson (Journeyman). I have experience performing administrative duties as an Assistant Supervisor, including assigning priorities, preparing press training guides, and delegating responsibility. I assist the Pressman Supervisor in planning, directing, and supervising currency production operations ensuring all policies and Safety, Security, Quality, Accountability, and Division procedures are followed. In addition, I assist in continual improvement efforts with regard to work operations and solving production problems.
 I have the ability to perform common Pressman Supervisor duties. I have had the equivalent of four years of experience as a Pressperson (Journeyman). I have experience performing administrative duties as an Assistant Supervisor, including assigning priorities, delegating responsibility, and assisting with the training of new employees. I ensure that proper methods and work procedures for currency production are followed and that all safety, security, and accountability procedures are adhered to.
 I have the ability to perform Pressman duties. I have been a lead on a team of Pressman or trained others on Offset and Letterpress equipment used in the production of currency.
 I am unable to perform supervisory duties.


2.
To ensure you receive proper credit, please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties.


3.
Choose the statement that reflects your highest level of experience providing guidance in the interpretation of documents and manuals.
 I have experience providing guidance in interpreting the following: Simultan, LEPE, and COPE operating manuals, Manufacturing equipment operating manuals, AFX inspection system manuals, Technical Manuals, and Quality Management System Documents.
 I have experience providing guidance in interpreting the following: Simultan and LEPE operating manuals, AFX inspection system manuals, and Quality Management System Documents.
 I have experience providing guidance in interpreting the following: LEPE Press operating manuals, AFX inspection system manuals, and Quality Management System Documents.
 I have experience providing guidance in interpreting the following: COPE equipment operating manuals, Manufacturing equipment operating manuals, and Technical Manuals.
 None of the above.


4.
Choose the statement that reflects your highest level of experience analyzing defects and process issues on presses and making recommendations for improvement.
 I have experience analyzing defects and process issues and making recommendations for improvement for both LEPE and Simultan.
 I have experience analyzing defects and process issues and making recommendations for improvement for LEPE only.
 I have experience analyzing defects and process issues and making recommendations for improvement for Simultan only.
 I have experience analyzing defects and process issues and making recommendations for improvement for COPE only.
 None of the above.


5.
Select all of the following equipment with which you have Journeyman level experience.
 Simultan
 Intaglio SOI or I-10 printing press
 COPE
 LEPE
 None of the above


6.
Choose the statement that reflects your highest level of experience operating/monitoring a printing press.
 I have experience setting up AFX and Datascan Inspection for production to meet established quality requirements, utilizing Letterpress computer controls to set-up or correct press issues, setting up and operating LEPE OCR cameras to meet quality requirements, setting up and operating Bundle and Cash Pack Label program, checking to ensure product meets all quality requirements, utilizing Offset computer controls to setup or correct press issues, and ensuring mechanical system of LEPE or Simultan are operating to meet quality requirements.
 I have experience setting up AFX and Datascan Inspection for production to meet established quality requirements, setting up and operating LEPE OCR cameras to meet quality requirements, checking to ensure product meets all quality requirements, and ensuring mechanical system of LEPE or Simultan are operating to meet quality requirements.
 I have experience setting up AFX and Datascan Inspection for production to meet established quality requirements, setting up and operating LEPE OCR cameras to meet quality requirements, ensuring mechanical system of LEPE are operating to meet quality requirements, and checking to ensure product meets all quality requirements.
 I have experience utilizing Letterpress computer controls to setup or correct press issues and ensuring mechanical system of COPE are operating to meet quality requirements.
 I have experience utilizing Letterpress computer controls to setup or correct press issues and checking to ensure product meets all quality requirements.


7.
Choose the statement that reflects your highest level of experience training or supervising others.
 I have experience training others in standard operating procedures, instructing, guiding, and reviewing the work of others, communicating changes in programs, and motivating employees to perform accurate and efficient work to produce quality results.
 I have experience training others in standard operating procedures, instructing, guiding, and reviewing the work of others, and communicating changes in programs.
 I have experience training others in standard operating procedures and instructing, guiding, and reviewing the work of others.
 I have experience training others in standard operating procedures.
 None of the above.


8.
Choose the statement that most accurately describes your level of experience providing training or communicating technical guidance to others.


 I have experience providing training or communicating technical guidance on Simultan presses, LEPE, and COPE.
 I have experience providing training or communicating technical guidance on Simultan presses and LEPE.
 I have experience providing training or communicating technical guidance on Simultan presses or LEPE.
 I have experience providing training or communicating technical guidance on COPE.
 None of the above.


9.
Choose the statement that demonstrates your ability to work with others inside and outside of the agency.
 I have the ability to brief supervisors/managers on technical information both within the agency and outside the agency - acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments and serving as a liaison during internal and external quality audits.
 I have the ability to brief supervisors/managers on technical information both within the agency and outside the agency - acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments and participating in internal and external quality audits.
 I have the ability to brief supervisors/managers on technical information within the agency - acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments and participating in internal quality audits.
 I have the ability to brief supervisors/managers on technical information within the agency - acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts and information needed to complete assignments.
 None of the above.


10.
Choose the statement that demonstrates your ability to work with others when performing administrative functions.
 I have the ability to perform administrative functions, including participating in the hiring process (interviewing candidates and making recommendations for appointments/selections, promotions, or reassignments), instructing, guiding, and reviewing the work of others, motivating employees, handling discipline problems, resolving informal grievances, and counseling employees on performance and training needs.
 I have the ability to perform administrative functions, including making recommendations for appointments/selections, promotions, or reassignments, instructing, guiding, and reviewing the work of others, handling discipline problems, resolving informal grievances, and counseling employees on performance and training needs.
 I have the ability to perform administrative functions, including reviewing the work of others, handling discipline problems, and counseling employees on performance and training needs.
 I have the ability to perform administrative functions, including reviewing the work of others and reporting findings to my immediate supervisor.
 None of the above.


11.
Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience in production planning and administration.
 I have experience planning and monitoring daily, weekly, or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, and priorities. I can estimate material and manpower needs for specific jobs, monitor daily production, and prepare production reports for my superiors. In addition, I regularly interpret production/technical manuals and prepare work instructions and procedures for a workforce.
 I have experience planning and monitoring daily, weekly, or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, and priorities. I can monitor daily production and prepare production reports for my superiors. In addition, I regularly interpret production/technical manuals and prepare work instructions and procedures for a workforce.
 I have experience monitoring daily production and preparing production reports for my superiors as well as preparing work instructions and procedures for a workforce.
 I have experience monitoring production.
 None of the above.


12.
Choose the statement that most accurately describes your experience in production planning and administration.
 I have experience regularly coordinating with other production divisions to ensure a smooth flow of production, performing MES transactions required to meet compliance requirements, analyzing defects and process issues and making recommendations for improvement, planning and organizing tasks for other workers using judgment regarding individual abilities, and developing technical plans involving large groups of employees and giving direction to subordinate supervisors at the next lower level.
 I have experience regularly coordinating with other production divisions to ensure a smooth flow of production, performing MES transactions required to meet compliance requirements, analyzing defects and process issues and making recommendations for improvement as well as planning and organizing tasks for other workers using judgment regarding individual abilities.
 I have experience regularly coordinating with other production divisions to ensure a smooth flow of production and performing MES transactions required to meet compliance requirements as well as planning and organizing tasks for other workers using judgment regarding individual abilities.
 I have experience performing MES transactions required to meet compliance requirements as well as planning and organizing tasks for other workers using judgment regarding individual abilities.
 None of the above.


13.
Select the statement that demonstrates your ability to plan and organize work.
 I have the ability to coordinate work with MULTIPLE OTHER DIVISIONS on a variety of complex tasks, assign daily work and monitor operations, coordinate and schedule overtime to ensure deadlines are met, and manage time and attendance to ensure operational effectiveness.
 I have the ability to coordinate work within ONE DIVISION on a variety of complex task, assign daily work and monitor operations, coordinate and schedule overtime to ensure deadlines are met, and manage time and attendance to ensure operational effectiveness.
 I have the ability to coordinate work within ONE DEPARTMENT, assign daily work and monitor operations, coordinate and schedule overtime to ensure deadlines are met, and manage time and attendance to ensure operational effectiveness.
 I have the ability to assign daily work and monitor operations within MY OWN department as well as manage time and attendance to ensure operational effectiveness.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙