Position Title
IT CYBERSECURITY SPECIALIST
Agency
Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency
Announcement Number
DCSA-25-12800998-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 12, 2025 to Sep 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal civilian employee applying for this vacancy?


 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


6.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


7.
Please select the best response to advise on your prior or current Civilian status. (If you indicate you are a current or former federal employee and if you do not provide a current SF-50, you will be automatically ineligible for consideration).
 I am a former federal civilian employee who has completed a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am a former federal civilian employee who did NOT complete a 2 year probationary or trial period in a position as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am currently employed as a civilian in the Federal competitive or excepted service.
 I am neither a current or former federal civilian employee.


8.
Where did you learn about the DCSA position for which you are applying?
Campus event (in-person or virtual)
In-person hiring event
Virtual hiring event
DCSA website
USAJobs job search
USAJobs saved search email notification
DCSA employee
LinkedIn job posting
DCSA LinkedIn social media post
Recruiter LinkedIn post
Facebook post
X post
Handshake post
School job announcement
Professional organization
Conference career fair
Contacted by a Recruiter
Other


9.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Huntsville, AL
 E. Phoenix, AZ
 F. Cypress, CA
 G. Fremont, CA
 H. Pasadena, CA
 I. San Diego, CA
 J. Suisun City, CA
 K. Colorado Springs, CO
 L. Denver, CO
 M. Melbourne, FL
 N. Oviedo, FL
 O. Tampa, FL
 P. Atlanta, GA
 Q. Augusta, GA
 R. Downers Grove, IL
 S. Fairview Heights, IL
 T. Hanover, MD
 U. Andover, MA
 V. Livonia, MI
 W. Dayton, OH
 X. Charleston, SC
 Y. Farmers Branch, TX
 Z. Irving, TX
 AA. San Antonio, TX
 AB. Alexandria, VA
 AC. Herndon, VA
 B. Quantico, VA
 C. Virginia Beach, VA
 D. Tacoma, WA


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience.
 I possess specialized experience obtained in federal service, military service or private sector that equipped me with all the competencies necessary to perform at a level equivalent in difficulty, responsibility, and complexity to the next lower grade (GS/GG-12) and are prepared to take on greater responsibility. Generally, this would include one year or more of such specialized experience. Specialized experience for the GG-13 position includes: Using Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) to assess technology areas such as networks, endpoint security, vulnerability scanning, DNS, operating systems, or databases. Utilizing knowledge of cybersecurity principles, networking concepts, and security methodologies to perform impact and risk assessments. Preparing audit reports that identify technical and procedural findings with recommended remediation strategies. Utilizing risk management processes for assessing and mitigating risk.
 I do not meet any of the requirements listed above


2.
Please indicate all technology area(s) in which you have demonstrated hands-on experience applying Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) or equivalent assessment methods. Only include areas where you have personally performed assessments. Address any relevant experience with:
- Network (Routers, Firewalls, Switches, and/or IDS)
- Endpoint Security (legacy HBSS)
- Network Vulnerability Scanning (ACAS)
- Infrastructure Services (Domain Name System (DNS), Exchange, Web, Database, Virtualization)
- Operating Systems (Windows, Linux/Unix)




3.
Please describe your current Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction Manual - 8140.03, foundational certification requirements status for DoD Cybercode 541 (Vulnerability Assessment Analyst) to include whether you meet the requirements at the basic, intermediate, or advanced level.



4.
Briefly describe your experience conducting technical evaluations of software applications, systems, or networks and assessed Risk Management Framework (RMF) activities, including evaluation of security controls, authorization artifacts, or continuous monitoring results, to determine compliance with applicable cybersecurity requirements.




5.
Please describe your experience working as part of an assessment or inspection team, including instances where you prepared or delivered audit findings, assessment results, or risk assessment results. In your response, explain how you clearly communicated complex issues to support effect decision making.



6.
Describe a recent assessment or inspection (unclassified information only) you led or contributed to which demonstrates your capabilities in cybersecurity, IT performance assessment, teamwork, and strategic communication. In your response, using unclassified information only address: (1) the mission context and systems/technologies assessed; (2) methods used to evaluate security posture, controls, and performance (e.g., STIGs, ACAS, RMF artifacts, continuous monitoring); (3) how you collaborated with team members and stakeholders to plan, execute, and synthesize findings; and (4) how you communicated complex technical results-reports, briefings, or recommendations-to support timely leadership decisions and measurable outcomes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙