Position Title
MEDICAL RECORDS TECHNICIAN (ROI-LEGAL)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12889452-26-DF Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience and certification that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education and certification are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


Release of information falls under the jurisdiction of Health Information Management. The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Technician (MRT) (Release of Information (ROI)) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRT (ROI) assignments in the GS-0675 series. The MRT (ROI) reviews and processes requests for patient protected health information (PHI). The MRT (ROI) also provides direct customer service to the Veteran (or third party), by providing copies of the Veteran's PHI, when a signed, written request is received, or upon the Veteran's valid authorization to a third party. The MRT (ROI) must ensure that only the information that the Veteran specified be released, is shared only with those whom the Veteran has authorized, or who have legal authority to receive such information. To perform this task, a MRT (ROI) must possess expertise in all applicable Federal laws, rules, and regulations regarding release of health information.


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

In accordance with 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. U.S. citizenship is required.

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


2.
Basic Requirements - Experience and/or Education: In order to meet the basic requirements to be a Medical Records Technician (Release of Information), you must possess either creditable experience, education, or a combination of creditable experience and education. Select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. (A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all of part of your qualifications on education).


 Experience: I have one (1) year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology and general understanding of health records. Six months of the required one year of creditable experience must have provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform MRT (ROI) work.
 Education: I have an associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy, and physiology, legal aspects of health care, and introduction to health records).
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying towards meeting basic experience requirements. The following experience and educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and one year above high school with a minimum of six semester hours of health information technology/health information management courses. (b) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, privacy and release of information, the health record, and successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service under close medical and professional supervision. The training program may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy and physiology, and health record techniques and procedures.
 Grandfathering Provision applies to me, as I was in and never left the VHA MRT occupation as of December 10, 2019, and I may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journeyman) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journeyman level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions. (Must provide SF-50 dated before/on the effective date, and a current SF-50)
 I do not have the basic education or experience listed above.


The following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (ROI-Legal), GS-07. Experience will be verified.


3.
Select the option that best describes your experience for the GS-07 MRT (ROI-Legal).
 One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-6). Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is paid or non-paid employment directly related to the position to be filled, or in a related field such as medical support assistants, ward clerks, health record file room/scanning technicians, incomplete health record analysis, medical coding, or other positions that included knowledge of the content and use of health records. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current release of information practice.
 I do not have the creditable experience.


4.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, you must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.

(1) Knowledge of the laws and regulations related to the authorization and disclosure of health information.
(2) Ability to apply laws and regulations related to the disclosure of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, HIPAA, and 38 U.S.C. 7332, Confidentiality of Certain Medical Records).
(3) Ability to investigate the contents of paper and electronic health records and systems that contain health information to compile the legal health record based on existing standards and requirements.

Can you demonstrate all of the knowledge, skills, and abilities listed above for the Medical Records Technician, ROI-Legal?
This experience must be documented in your resume.

 Yes, I can demonstrate all of the KSAs for this position, and the KSAs for this position and grade are clearly document in my resume/application.
 No, I CANNOT demonstrate all of the KSA for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙