Position Title
CYP Family Child Care Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12884473 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 11, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child Development Home Director. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in the related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 semester hours) appropriate to the position (see above), plus appropriate experience or additional coursework that that provides knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course study described above AND 3 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or a related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in managing and designing complex child development programs, which may include safety, security, disease prevention, employee/provider training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and CDH program management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in managing and designing child development programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in managing and designing child development programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in applying family child care regulations (e.g., Federal, State, local, etc.)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in applying family child care regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in applying family child care regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in applying family child care regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in applying family child care regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in applying family child care regulations and standards, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, and purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in financial management.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


7.
What size is the DoD Family Child Care (FCC) or Child Development Home (CDH) system you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large DoD FCC/CDH system (86+ homes).
 I have experience managing a medium DoD FCC/CDH system (30 to 85 homes).
 I have experience managing a small DoD FCC/CDH system (up to 29 homes).
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙