Position Title
ELECTRONICS MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13024760-AR-26-104 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 30, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E1 - E9 or WO1 - CW3?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW3.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E1 - E9 or WO1 - CW3.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates the applicant's knowledge of electrical or electronic theory, knowledge of common testing procedures, skill in the use of hand tools of the electronics trade, and skill in reading schematics.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-10: Do you posses 18 months experience or training in utilizing principles, basic functions, and application of theory of electronic systems or equipment. Experience in diagnosing problems and determining needed repairs for malfunctions in electronic equipment or systems. Experience in making mechanical repairs that required the use of precision measuring and calibrating equipment. Experience in using complex test equipment such as deviation meters, complex special test panels, etc. Experience which demonstrates the ability to interpret technical manuals, specifications, and publication
 Yes
 No


3.
Describe your experience troubleshooting and repairing electrical and power distribution systems on moderately complex tactical equipment. Provide a specific example of how you isolated a fault within an assembly, wiring harness, or module down to the component level, detailing the initial and final checks you performed to verify the repair.


4.
Detail your proficiency in operating both standard and Automatic Test Equipment (ATE), such as oscilloscopes, signal generators, and digital multi-meters. Walk through a specific instance where you utilized these diagnostic tools to locate and replace faulty components on multi-layered printed circuit boards or VHF/UHF communication equipment.


5.
Explain your experience conducting field and limited sustainment maintenance on operational communication and electronic systems (e.g., tactical computers, radio relay systems, or night vision sights). Specifically, describe how you utilize schematics, signal string lists, and Test Measurement and Diagnostic Equipment (TMDE) to diagnose the root cause of complex malfunctions.


6.
Describe a situation where you were tasked with inspecting and diagnosing a heavily malfunctioning piece of tactical electronic equipment. Walk through your analytical process for determining the extent of the malfunction and how you decided whether the equipment could be economically repaired to a serviceable condition or if it needed to be declared unserviceable/salvaged.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙