Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA-26-12912024-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Executive Order (E.O.) 12721

This category includes those who meet the following conditions:

• you worked in an overseas area as an Appropriated Fund Federal employee

• you are/were a family member of an appropriate sponsor (a Federal civilian employee, a Federal NAF employee, or a member of a uniformed service) during the overseas employment

• you completed 52 weeks of creditable service, AND

• you are applying within 3 years of returning to the U.S. from the overseas tour of duty

An individual must have been a family member at the time s/he met the overseas service requirement, but does not need to be a family member at the time of non-competitive appointment in the United States. A family member is a spouse, domestic partner, or unmarried child under the age of 23.

Any law, Executive Order, or regulation that disqualifies an applicant for appointment in the competitive service also disqualifies the applicant for appointment under E.O. 12721.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 12721 which may include: A copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notice of Personnel Action," reflecting 52 weeks of creditable service or 26 weeks of creditable service if the sponsor's tour was curtailed.

For more information visit the Department of State website: E.O. 12721

Are you eligible under E.O. 12721?
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


8.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


12.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


13.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


14.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 30% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 30% of the time?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Manager at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes: 1) Managing programs and projects to support organizational goals, including overseeing activities to ensure successful execution. 2) Monitoring progress and identifying issues related to cost, schedule, and performance, and implementing corrective actions as needed. 3) Providing guidance on policies, procedures, and program requirements to ensure compliance and effective operations. 4) Collaborating with stakeholders, including agency officials, contractors, and customers, to address challenges and improve program outcomes. AND 5) Developing budgets, plans, and reports to support decision-making and program management.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
A district office contacts you requesting guidance on establishing financial tracking for a new $2.3M AIS enhancement project. They mention they've already received initial funding but are unsure about proper documentation requirements and internal monitoring protocols. The COR is new to AIS programs and needs comprehensive guidance on both immediate setup procedures and ongoing financial oversight responsibilities.

 Inform the COR that financial tracking setup is primarily a RM responsibility and recommend they follow standard Corps financial procedures, since programs use the same basic financial management principles as other construction projects.
 Direct the COR to review existing financial management regulations and suggest they contact the district finance office for local guidance, while offering to provide clarification on AIS-specific requirements if needed.
 Schedule a comprehensive briefing session with the COR and HNC financial team to review fund receipt documentation requirements, demonstrate the internal tracking system setup process, and establish a monthly monitoring schedule with standardized reporting templates and milestone checkpoints.
 Send the standard financial tracking procedures manual to the district office and offer to conduct a follow-up call in two weeks to ensure proper implementation and address any procedural questions that may arise.
 Provide the COR with detailed written procedures for fund documentation and tracking system setup, followed by a phone consultation to address specific questions, and recommend they establish quarterly financial reviews with their district finance office.


2.
You are simultaneously managing three critical initiatives: a program with a Congressional deadline, an emergency module enhancement for disaster response capabilities, and a routine but essential database migration. All three projects are experiencing resource conflicts, and your technical team is expressing concerns about meeting all deadlines without compromising quality standards.

 Meet with project leads to assess current status and resource requirements, establish clear priority rankings based on mission impact, and negotiate timeline adjustments with less critical stakeholders while ensuring the Congressional deadline is maintained.
 Conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of all three initiatives, prioritize based on mission criticality and stakeholder impact, reallocate resources accordingly, and develop contingency plans while maintaining regular communication with all stakeholders about adjusted timelines and expectations.
 Focus primary resources on the Congressional deadline project while maintaining minimal staffing on other initiatives, and plan to address any quality issues or delays in the other projects after the critical deadline is met.
 Review project schedules and resource allocations to identify potential efficiencies, request additional temporary resources from other branches, and implement enhanced monitoring procedures to ensure quality standards are maintained across all initiatives.
 Maintain current resource allocation across all projects and instruct team leads to work additional hours as needed to meet all deadlines, since all three initiatives were previously approved and must be completed as originally scheduled.


3.
Your monthly contract capacity review reveals that two of your five MATOC contract suites are approaching 85% total capacity utilization with 12 months remaining in the ordering period, while a third suite shows only 40% utilization. Additionally, you've received preliminary indications that upcoming mission requirements may exceed current total capacity by 15% over the next fiscal year.

 Monitor the high-utilization contracts weekly for the remainder of the ordering period, prepare documentation for option period exercises, and begin preliminary discussions with the contracting office about potential new IDC requirements for the following fiscal year.
 Continue monitoring all contracts monthly as scheduled and wait until contracts reach 95% capacity before taking action, since early option period exercises may result in unnecessary contract extensions and increased costs.
 Continue current utilization patterns while planning to address any capacity shortfalls through expedited procurement processes when they occur.
 Immediately begin recompete procedures for the two high-utilization contracts, work with program managers to redirect some requirements to the underutilized contract suite, and submit a request for new IDC initiation based on projected capacity needs.
 Analyze utilization trends and projected requirements across all suites, coordinate with contracting office to assess option period feasibility for high-utilization contracts, develop a capacity rebalancing strategy for underutilized contracts, and initiate preliminary planning for new IDC procurement to address projected capacity shortfalls. Ensure remaining capacity is used for priority projects (as determined by program and customer).


4.
You're attending a quarterly planning conference with HQUSACE and district representatives where customers are presenting conflicting operational requirements for the next fiscal year. One district is requesting enhanced cybersecurity features that would require significant system modifications, while another district emphasizes the need for improved user interface functionality. Both requirements would impact the same core system modules and compete for limited development resources.

 Acknowledge both requirements as valid operational needs, suggest that districts coordinate directly with each other to reach a consensus on priorities, and offer to implement whichever requirement receives stronger customer support.
 Document both requirements thoroughly during the conference, schedule follow-up meetings with each district to gather additional details, and coordinate with the technical team to assess which requirement can be more efficiently implemented within current budget constraints.
 Recommend that both districts submit formal requirement change requests through their respective channels, since operational requirements should be processed through established procedures rather than being decided in planning conferences.
 Facilitate a structured discussion to understand the underlying operational drivers for each requirement, assess technical feasibility and resource implications of both requests, propose a phased implementation approach that addresses critical elements of both needs, and establish a collaborative framework for prioritizing development efforts.
 Request detailed justification documents from both districts outlining their operational requirements, conduct a technical analysis of implementation options, and recommend a priority ranking based on mission impact and available resources for the upcoming fiscal year.


5.
During your weekly program review, you notice that a critical AE firm has been consistently delivering modules 2-3 days behind schedule over the past month, and their project manager has been less responsive to communications. Additionally, you've learned through informal channels that this vendor is experiencing financial difficulties and may be considering staff reductions that could affect your project deliverables.

 Document the performance trends and schedule a meeting with the AE firm within the next week to address delivery concerns, review contract terms for performance standards, and prepare a risk assessment for program leadership regarding potential impacts.
 Focus on working with the AE firm's existing project manager to resolve communication issues, since financial difficulties are not directly related to contract performance and vendor changes could cause more delays than the current minor schedule slippages.
 Immediately schedule a formal meeting with the AE firm's senior management to address performance concerns and assess their financial stability, develop contingency plans including identification of alternative vendors, and implement enhanced monitoring procedures while documenting all communications for potential contract action.
 Continue monitoring the AE firm's performance for another two weeks to establish a clearer pattern, then address the issues through normal contract management channels while maintaining current project schedules and expectations.
 Contact the AE firm's project manager to discuss recent performance issues and request a detailed recovery plan and increase project monitoring frequency while keeping stakeholders informed of potential risks.


6.
During a critical programmatic meeting, a district representative reports that a project is experiencing cost overruns of 25% due to unexpected technical complexities, while the contractor claims the additional work falls outside the original scope. The district is requesting additional funding, but your current budget allocation is already committed to other priority initiatives, and the fiscal year ends in four months.

 Facilitate a detailed scope review session with all parties to clearly define original requirements versus additional work, assess the technical justification for cost increases, explore alternative funding sources or timeline adjustments, and develop a collaborative solution that addresses both technical needs and fiscal constraints.
 Request comprehensive documentation from both the government team and contractor regarding the scope changes and cost justifications, schedule a follow-up meeting to review funding options, and work with program leadership to identify potential budget reallocations or supplemental funding sources.
 Inform the government team that cost overruns are their responsibility to manage within existing budgets, since proper project planning should have identified these technical complexities during the initial design phase, and additional funding cannot be provided without compromising other critical programs.
 Direct the government team and contractor to resolve the scope dispute through their existing contract mechanisms, offer to provide technical guidance as needed, and suggest they explore options for deferring non-critical enhancements to the next fiscal year.
 Mediate between the government team and contractor to establish agreed-upon scope boundaries, review available contingency funds within the current program budget, and negotiate a modified approach that reduces costs while meeting essential operational requirements.


7.
You're reviewing monthly progress reports for a high-visibility project and notice that while the contractor is reporting on-schedule completion of milestones, the actual system testing results show performance metrics that are 15% below specified requirements. The funds authorization documents indicate 70% budget utilization, but recent system change directives suggest scope modifications that weren't reflected in the progress reporting.

 Request clarification from the contractor regarding the performance metric discrepancies, review recent system change directives for scope impact, and schedule a project review meeting to align reporting with actual progress and address any budget implications.
 Continue monitoring through existing reporting channels while noting the performance concerns, and plan to address the discrepancies during the next scheduled quarterly review meeting with all stakeholders.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis comparing all documentation sources to identify discrepancies, schedule an immediate meeting with the contractor and technical team to address performance gaps, review scope changes for budget impact, and implement enhanced reporting procedures to ensure accurate progress visibility.
 Accept the contractor's progress reports as accurate since they are meeting milestone deadlines, and assume that performance metrics will improve as the system development progresses toward final implementation.
 Document the inconsistencies between reported progress and actual performance metrics, contact the project manager to discuss the scope changes reflected in system directives, and request updated progress reports that accurately reflect current project status.


8.
While updating project data in P2 and CEFMS systems, you discover that budget tracking shows different expenditure amounts between the two systems for the same project, with a variance of $150,000. Additionally, schedule milestones in P2 show completion dates that don't align with the contractor's reported progress in CEFMS, creating confusion for stakeholders who access both systems for project status updates.

 Continue using both systems while noting the discrepancies in project documentation, and plan to address the data alignment issues during the next scheduled system maintenance period.
 Document the discrepancies and schedule a meeting with system administrators to understand the cause of data variance, temporarily use the most recently updated system for reporting while working to resolve the inconsistencies.
 Focus on maintaining current data entry practices in the primary system (P2) and discontinue updates to the secondary system (CEFMS) until the discrepancies can be resolved by IT support personnel.
 Review source documentation for both budget and schedule data to determine which system contains accurate information, make necessary corrections to align both systems, and implement a weekly cross-check procedure to ensure ongoing data consistency.
 Immediately halt data entry in both systems, conduct a systematic reconciliation of all financial and schedule data by comparing source documents, identify the root cause of discrepancies, correct all inaccurate entries, and establish standardized data entry procedures to prevent future inconsistencies.


9.
You're preparing the annual budget submission for your assigned AIS programs, and preliminary cost estimates indicate a 20% increase over the current year due to enhanced cybersecurity requirements and system modernization needs. However, initial guidance from headquarters suggests that budget increases should be limited to 5% to align with overall organizational constraints, while mission requirements continue to expand.

 Review all budget line items to identify potential cost savings and efficiencies, develop a baseline budget within the 5% guidance while documenting unfunded requirements, and prepare supplemental justification for additional needs.
 Submit a budget that complies with the 5% increase limitation while noting in the submission that some mission requirements may need to be deferred or eliminated due to funding constraints.
 Prepare the budget based on actual program needs regardless of headquarters guidance, since mission requirements should drive funding decisions rather than arbitrary budget limitations imposed by organizational constraints.
 Develop a comprehensive budget justification that clearly links increased costs to specific mission requirements and regulatory mandates, create alternative budget scenarios showing risk implications of reduced funding levels, and prepare a phased implementation plan that prioritizes critical capabilities within available resources.
 Prepare detailed cost-benefit analyses for all proposed enhancements, identify which requirements are mandatory versus desirable, and submit a prioritized budget request that demonstrates how the increased funding directly supports mission accomplishment.


10.
A district office has submitted a work authorization request for an emergency system modification to support disaster response operations, but the request doesn't clearly align with existing policy guidelines for emergency funding. The modification is technically feasible but would require interpretation of policy language regarding "critical operational requirements" and could set a precedent for future similar requests from other districts.

 Review the emergency request against existing policy criteria, research similar past approvals for precedent guidance, and prepare a detailed policy interpretation that addresses the current situation while documenting the rationale for future reference.
 Conduct a thorough analysis of existing policy language and precedent cases, consult with legal and policy experts to ensure proper interpretation, develop clear guidance that addresses the current request while establishing consistent criteria for future emergency modifications, and coordinate with headquarters for policy clarification if needed.
 Apply existing policy guidelines as written to evaluate the request, provide a decision based on literal interpretation of current policy language, and suggest the district modify their request to better align with established criteria.
 Approve the emergency request based on operational necessity since disaster response takes priority over policy compliance, and address any policy interpretation issues through post-action review processes.
 Analyze the work authorization request for compliance with emergency funding policies, consult with program leadership regarding policy interpretation, and provide written guidance to the district with clear explanation of the decision rationale.


11.
A critical system development project is experiencing simultaneous problems: design delays due to changing user requirements, cost overruns from unexpected technical integration challenges, and development delays caused by vendor resource conflicts. The project is now 6 weeks behind schedule with costs 30% over budget, and stakeholders are demanding immediate corrective action while continuing to request additional functionality changes.

 Direct the vendor to accelerate development by adding more resources to make up for lost time, since the original schedule and budget commitments must be maintained regardless of technical challenges or changing requirements.
 Freeze all requirement changes until current development is complete, work directly with vendor management to resolve resource allocation issues, and implement enhanced project controls to monitor cost and schedule recovery while maintaining stakeholder communication.
 Analyze the relationship between requirement changes and project delays, establish a priority ranking for remaining development tasks, and work with the vendor to develop a revised project plan that addresses the most critical technical integration challenges first.
 Focus on resolving the vendor resource conflicts as the primary issue, continue current development processes while documenting cost overruns for future budget adjustments, and schedule regular stakeholder meetings to manage expectation regarding requirement changes.
 Conduct a comprehensive root cause analysis to identify the primary sources of each problem category, implement a formal change control process to manage requirement modifications, negotiate with vendors to resolve resource conflicts, and develop an integrated recovery plan that addresses schedule, cost, and scope management simultaneously.


12.
You're reviewing a system change directive that proposes implementing new data analytics capabilities at a cost of $800,000. The technical approach appears sound, but the cost estimate seems high compared to similar implementations. Additionally, while the change supports operational efficiency goals, it may not fully comply with new data governance policies that were recently implemented, and the timeline conflicts with other planned system updates.

 Focus primarily on cost analysis and technical feasibility while noting policy compliance concerns for future resolution, and approve the directive with recommendations for cost reduction and timeline adjustments.
 Review the cost estimate against comparable system implementations and market rates, analyze the proposal for compliance with data governance policies, and provide guidance on timeline coordination while recommending specific modifications to ensure full policy compliance.
 Conduct a detailed technical and cost analysis comparing the proposal to industry standards and similar implementations, assess compliance with all applicable policies including data governance requirements, evaluate timeline impacts on other system activities, and provide comprehensive guidance that addresses technical feasibility, cost reasonableness, and policy compliance.
 Assess the technical merits and cost justification of the proposed system change, identify potential policy compliance issues that need resolution, and recommend a phased implementation approach that minimizes conflicts with other planned updates.
 Approve the system change directive as submitted since the technical approach is sound and operational benefits are clear, with policy compliance issues to be addressed during implementation phases.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙