Position Title
Supervisory Regulatory Economist - Financial Intermediaries
Agency
Securities and Exchange Commission
Announcement Number
26-IN-12956430-WLJ Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current SEC employee serving on a permanent or conditional appointment? 

To determine your eligibility, please refer to your last SF-50.  To be eligible, your tenure code must be 1 or 2 AND your status must reflect competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
From the options below, please indicate the choice that BEST describes your situation:
 I am an external candidate, and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for the position, I will be permitted to provide an updated comprehensive resume to determine salary. If an updated resume is not provided within 3 days of being notified of your selection, pay will be established based on the resume submitted at the time of application.
 I am a current SEC employee and I certify that I have read and understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in a promotion, the standard percentage increase will be applied (i.e., 6% for non-supervisory and 10% for supervisory positions) to determine my salary. I understand that should I be selected for this position and it results in lateral movement (i.e. no change in grade) I will maintain my current salary. I also understand that if I should be selected for this position and it results in a change in grade from an SK-15 to an SK-16, I will maintain my current salary.


2.
How did you hear about this position?
American Economic Association (AEA-JOE Network)
Career Fair (Please specify below)
College/University Job Board (e.g., Handshake, Symplicity)
Email from SEC Recruitment Team
Facebook
Friend (non-SEC Employee)
Friend (SEC Employee) (Please specify below)
I am a current SEC Employee or Contractor
Indeed
Job Board (Please specify below)
LinkedIn – Job Post
LinkedIn – Message from SEC Recruiter
SEC Careers Website (www.sec.gov/careers)
SEC Information Session
Social Science Research Network (SSRN)
USAJOBS – Job Search
USAJOBS – Message from SEC Recruiter
USAJOBS – Saved Search Email
X (formerly known as "Twitter")
Other source (e.g., job board, print ad, professional organization, website) (Please specify below)


3.
Please specify based on your selection above as applicable:


4.
I affirm that my application and all supporting documentation requested by the Securities and Exchange Commission was not created using Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)) tools. I am aware that any misrepresentation of my education, training or experience can lead to my disqualification of the hiring process.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Financial Economist, SK-0110-17 position within the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis at the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Are you a current, permanent employee in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis? Please refer to block 24 for Tenure (i.e. 1 or 2) and block 34 for Position Occupied (i.e. 1) on your latest Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
The following are basic qualification requirements for this position. Please select the letter that corresponds to the statement that most accurately describes your level of education/experience.

 I have a degree in economics that includes at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting or calculus.
 I have a combination of education and experience--courses evaluated I have a combination of education and experience--courses equivalent to a major in economics, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. Examples of qualifying experience include individual economic research assignments requiring planning, information assembly, analysis and evaluation, conclusions and report preparation; supervisory or project coordination assignments involving a staff of professional economists, and requiring the evaluation and interpretation of economic information; or teaching assignment in a college or university in economic subjects in combination with one of the following: (1) personal research that produced evidence of results, (2) direction of graduate theses in economics, or (3) service as a consultant or advisor on technical economics problems.
 My level of education and/or experience is less than described above.


3.
From the responses below, select the statement(s) that best describes your ability to perform as a Supervisory Financial Economist, SK-110-17.
 A. I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS/SK-14 grade level providing economic analysis in support of enforcement investigations into violations of the federal securities laws.
 B. I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS/SK-14 grade level providing economic analysis of rulemaking involving federal securities laws.
 C. I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS/SK-14 grade level providing economic analysis of financial risks that may affect investors or markets.
 D. I have one year of experience equivalent to the GS/SK-14 grade level providing economic research of issues involving securities, financial markets or investors.
 E. B. My level of experience is less than described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙