Position Title
Cook/Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR27-001
Open Period
Oct 01, 2026 to Sep 30, 2027
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member? If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. NOTE 2: You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes: A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license. Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No
3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND You reside within the local commuting area AND You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station? Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No
Food Service Worker (Bowling)
.
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Food Service Worker position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
1.
Are you are spouse or dependent under 23 of either an Active duty service member or a DoD civilian (this is does not include contractors) on official orders to Naples? Orders must have a report date within 30 days of the closing date of the announcement to be considered.
 I am a listed spouse of an Active-Duty Service Member on official orders to Naples.
 I am a listed spouse of a DOD Civilian on official orders to Naples..
 I am a listed dependent under the age of 23 of an Active-Duty Service Member on official orders to Naples.
 I am a listed dependent under the age of 23 of a DOD Civilian on official orders to Naples.
 None of the above.
2.
How much experience do you have in preparing and handling food in the food service industry?
 I have 2 or more years experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry.
 I have 1 - 2 years experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry.
 I have less than a year experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry.
 I have no experience in preparing and handling food in the food service industry.
3.
How much experience do you have in operating a cash register?
 I have 2 or more years' experience in operating a cash register.
 I have 1 - 2 years' experience in operating a cash register.
 I have less than a year experience in operating a cash register.
 I have no experience in operating a cash register.
4.
What best describes your experience providing customer service?
 I have 2 or more years' experience providing customer service.
 I have 1 - 2 years' experience providing customer service.
 I have less than a year experience providing customer service.
 I have no experience providing customer service.
5.
What best describes your knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination?
 I have extensive knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 2 or more years of experience in the food service industry).
 I have a working knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. 1 - 2 years working experience in the food service industry).
 I have little knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. less than 1 year of experience in the food service industry).
 I have no knowledge of common sanitation procedures to prevent contamination (i.e. no work experience in the food service industry).
