Position Title
Machinist
Agency
U.S. Army Communications Electronics Command
Announcement Number
MCGN-26-13042373-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Employee shifts are rotated on a regularly scheduled basis. Are you willing and able to work on a rotating shift basis to meet work requirements?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Machinist position with Department of the Army.

Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform a Machinist duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex tasks which include multi-axis lathes, milling machines, water jets, horizontal machining centers and operating computer numerical control (CNC) machines to perform specific machining operation in the machining of castings, forgings, or other raw stocks made of various metals, metal alloys, and other materials. I am skilled in performing machining operations necessary for completion, setting up and operating conventional and computer numerical control (CNC) machine tools; using a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments; determining speeds, feeds, and coolants, lubricants, or abrasives to be used taking into consideration the characteristics of both the machinery and the materials to be worked; performing precision hand work such as filing, scraping, and lapping to fit, assemble, and finish machined parts; using Renishaw probes both part and tool set-up, and using high-precision instruments to hold exact tolerances, including vernier calipers, height gages, micrometers (inside/outside/depth), dial indicators, and optical/mechanical comparators. I am proficient with Fanuc controls. I interpret and translate work orders or oral instructions accompanied with blueprints and instructions for the machine to determine the attachments to be used, sequence of operations on each machine, and critical dimensions or unusual aspects of the job. I am considered an expert in Machinist duties and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range duties which include muti turn lathes, horizontal machining centers, milling machines, water jet machines and operating computer numerical control (CNC) machines to perform specific machining operation in the machining of castings, forgings, or other raw stocks made of various metals, metal alloys, and other materials. I am skilled in performing machining operations necessary for completion, setting up and operating conventional and computer numerical control (CNC) machine tools and proficient using Fanuc controls and using a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments; determining speeds, feeds, and coolants, lubricants, or abrasives to be used; and performing precision hand work such as filing, scraping, and lapping to fit, assemble, and finish machined parts. I interpret and translate work orders or oral instructions accompanied with blueprints and instructions for the machine to determine the attachments to be used, sequence of operations on each machine, and critical dimensions or unusual aspects of the job. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties which include lathes, water jets, milling machines, grinding machines and operating computer numerical control (CNC) machines to perform specific machining operation in the machining of castings, forgings, or other raw stocks made of various metals, metal alloys, and other materials. I can use a variety of auxiliary machine tool attachments; determine speeds, feeds, and coolants, lubricants, or abrasives to be used; and perform precision hand work such as filing, scraping, and lapping to fit, assemble, and finish machined parts. I interpret work orders or oral instructions accompanied by blueprints, sketches, drawings, sample parts, parts programs or other specifications to determine work procedures, materials, machines, tools, equipment, and attachments to be used during the sequence of machining operations. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Machinist duties or I have received training on use of basic hand tools.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙