Position Title
FOOD AND BEVERAGE MANAGER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12825867 Opens in new window
Open Period
Thursday, November 13, 2025 to Friday, November 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employee of Naval District Washington (NDW)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess a four-year degree in Food & Beverage Management or Business Administration and/or the equivalent experience and specialized training in a variety of food and beverage service facilities, programming, marketing, catering and/or banquet operations?  If claiming education, transcripts must be attached.
 Yes
 No


2.
Which statement best describes your documented experience in performing the full scope of management duties in a food and beverage service establishment?
 I do not have any experience.
 I have less than one year of experience.
 I have one to three years of experience.
 I have three to five years of experience.
 I have more than five years of experience.


3.
Which of following types of food and beverage operations do you have at least two years of experince managing?
 A. Fast food
 B. Fast Casual
 C. Catering
 D. Food Truck
 E. Multi-unit Dining
 F. Casual Dining
 G. Fine Dining
 H. I do not have experience managing any of the above.


4.
Which statement best describes your experience in budgeting, financial management and planning within a food and beverage operation?
 I have no experience.
 I have less than one year of experience.
 I have one to three years of experience.
 I have three to five years of experience.
 I have more than five years of experience.


5.
How many years of experience do you have utilizing food ordering systems?
 I have no experience.
 I have less than one year of experience.
 I have between one and three years of experience.
 I have between three and five years of experience.
 I have more than five years of experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙