Position Title
IT Specialist (DATAMGT)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IO-26-MI-12937685 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to Apr 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 M. Little Rock, AR
 N. North Little Rock, AR
 O. Long Beach, CA
 P. Los Angeles, CA
 Q. San Francisco, CA
 R. Denver, CO
 S. Washington, DC
 T. Miami, FL
 U. Orlando, FL
 V. Saint Petersburg, FL
 W. Tampa, FL
 X. Atlanta, GA
 Y. Chicago, IL
 Z. Hines, IL
 AA. North Chicago, IL
 AB. Baltimore, MD
 AC. Bedford, MA
 AD. Boston, MA
 AE. Detroit, MI
 AF. Minneapolis, MN
 AG. Saint Louis, MO
 AH. Eatontown, NJ
 AI. Albany, NY
 AJ. Cleveland, OH
 AK. Philadelphia, PA
 B. Pittsburgh, PA
 C. Nashville, TN
 D. Arlington, TX
 E. Austin, TX
 F. Dallas, TX
 G. Houston, TX
 H. San Antonio, TX
 I. Salt Lake City, UT
 J. Seatac, WA
 K. Seattle, WA
 L. Shepherdstown, WV


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. The basic occupational requirements and specialized experience MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Individual Occupational Requirement GS-11 GRADE LEVEL: This standard allows eligibility through meeting either the education or experience requirement. Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience/education meets the basic requirements for an IT Specialist (DATAMGT), GS-2210-11.

EDUCATION: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the following fields: computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, statistics, operations research, engineering, or technology management. (Note: If using education to qualify transcripts are required.)
OR
EXPERIENCE: Experience must include  IT-related experience that demonstrates each of the following four competencies:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations
AND
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: assisting with developing, implementing, installing, and configuring IT enhancements related to systems accessibility, software and the administration and management of IT system and databases; managing automated provisioning and patching as well as backup and recovery operations and virtualization technologies; identifying and anticipating system/server performance, availability, capacity, or configuration problems; supporting and assisting in the development of storage architecture.


1.
Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a qualifying field of study as described above.
 I have three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a qualifying field of study as described above.
 I have at least one full year of IT-related experience demonstrating the four competencies described above.
 I do not have the experience or education described above.


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: assisting with developing, implementing, installing, and configuring IT enhancements related to systems accessibility, software and the administration and management of IT system and databases; managing automated provisioning and patching as well as backup and recovery operations and virtualization technologies; identifying and anticipating system/server performance, availability, capacity, or configuration problems; supporting and assisting in the development of storage architecture.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Basic Individual Occupational Requirement GS-12 GRADE LEVEL: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for an IT Specialist (DATAMGT), GS-2210-12.

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
AND
Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: assisting with developing, implementing, installing, and configuring IT enhancements related to systems accessibility, software and the administration and management of IT system and databases; managing automated provisioning and patching as well as backup and recovery operations and virtualization technologies; identifying and anticipating system/server performance, availability, capacity, or configuration problems; supporting and assisting in the development of storage architecture.


3.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: assisting with developing, implementing, installing, and configuring IT enhancements related to systems accessibility, software and the administration and management of IT system and databases; managing automated provisioning and patching as well as backup and recovery operations and virtualization technologies; identifying and anticipating system/server performance, availability, capacity, or configuration problems; supporting and assisting in the development of storage architecture.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙