Position Title
Program Specialist - Survivors Assistance and Memorial Support
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12943859-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 28, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
RESUME REMINDER - You resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title; Duties (be as detailed as possible);
Month and Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (includes hours worked per week)
Series and Grade if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
List the duties you performed under each individual job title.

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your response to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications.

To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


INSTRUCTIONS: TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT (TIG):Applicants who are current Federal employees AND have held a General Schedule (GS) grade any time in the past 52 weeks (full-time equivalency) must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-07 grade level position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-05 grade level. For a GS-09 grade level position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade level. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal Service.

NOTE:
If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade (WG) employee, this requirement does not apply to you. Also, this does not apply to temporary, term or intermittent appointments in accordance with 5 C.F.R. 300.603.].
Please provide a copy of your most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to verify your current Federal Service status.
You must also submit additional SF-50(s) with salary information to clearly demonstrate one (1) year time-in-grade as required in the announcement.
If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one (1) year time-in-grade.
In this instance, you should provide additional SF-50s to clearly demonstrate one (1) year time-in-grade.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following question based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-7: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-07 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-05) in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would be experience that provided you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and which is typically related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include: Collecting and managing new data about current practices in the department and across sites of care, Maintaining proficiency in using local, regional, and national databases, Using agency, department and program knowledge to determine essential data collection and provide program assessment/analysis, Creating and submitting reports for the facility.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work of the Program Specialist. OR, Superior Academic Achievement. NOTE: A transcript or course listing must be submitted if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Unofficial transcripts required. Applications submitted without this information will not be considered.
 I have equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education beyond a bachelor’s degree may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-07 level. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-9: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-09 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-7) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Program Specialist. Qualifying specialized experience includes: Knowledge in in the areas of end-of-life, hospice death, burial, funeral, and bereavement, Advising Veterans and their next of kin of burial benefits and helps prearrange burial, interment, cremation as desired, Implementing information systems to track service activities including visits, referrals, demographics, and outcomes, Analyzing data to determine quality improvement measures and any necessary changes to processes.
 I have successfully completed two (2) years of progressively higher-level graduate education or masters or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D., in a related field of the position to be filled. Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate level education (beyond the first year) and specialized experience as described above, to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do to the work of this position. This education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. Experience must be clearly indicated in your resume.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙