Position Title
ARCHITECT/ENGINEER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13054941-AF-26-028A Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 04, 2026 to Oct 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Military Requirement's
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 AW - 145 CES) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 AW - 145 CES) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (2d Lt - Maj)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-12 Architect/Engineer position.
 I HAVE a degree in professional engineering (from school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the ABET or included differential and integral calculus and courses in 5 of following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics and dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics, electrical fields and circuits, nature and properties of materials, and any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics .
 I have a Combination of education and experience that includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience demonstrated by one of the following: Professional Registration, passing of Written Test (EIT, etc.), Specific Academic Courses, or Related Curriculum.
 I DO NOT HAVE possess either of the requirements described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0810-12 Civil Engineer.
 I HAVE at least 12 months of experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11).
 I DO NOT have at least 12 months of experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-11).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙