Position Title
FUL-Recreation Fee Technician
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHR-26-13042896-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s):Acadia National Park, Bar Harbor, ME;The following municipalities, including their villages (e.g., Seal Harbor as a village withinthe municipality of Mount Desert):

Amherst, Aurora, Bangor, Bar Harbor, Blue Hill Bradley, Brewer, Brooklin, Brooksville,Bucksport, Castine, Cherryfield, Clifton, Cranberry Isles, Deadham, Eastbrook, Eddington,Ellsworth, Fletchers Landing, Frankfort, Franklin, Frenchboro, Gouldsboro, Hampden,Hancock, Harrington, Hermon, Holden, Lamoine, Mariaville, Millbridge, Mount Desert,Orland, Orono, Orrington, Osborn, Otis, Penobscot, Prospect, Searsport, Sedgwick, Sorrento,Southwest Harbor, Steuben, Stockton Springs, Sullivan, Surry, Swans Island, Tremont,Trenton, Veazie, Verona Island, Waltham, Winter Harbor, Winterport

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualification (SCREEN OUT)


1.
Select the statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Recreation Fee Clerk work at the GS-07 level or equivalent. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered unqualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of Recreation Fee Technician, GS-0503-07. Examples of specialized experience: performing fee collection, accounting or financial duties to include operating a point-of-sale system; performing recurring or standardized accounting transactions such as remittances and bank deposits in automated financial systems; ensuring accountability of funds and accurate financial record; or resolving software issues that arise in the remittance and/or fee collection process.
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙