Position Title
Communication & Instrumentation Mechanic
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-MB-26-MP-13013516-CM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Jul 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Individuals with disabilities
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must provide "proof of a disability" documentation. "Proof of a disability" is a letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits. Example letter format can be found here: sampleschedaletters.pdf. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment under Schedule A Hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


3.
30% or More Disabled Veteran

To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
A copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; AND
A copy of your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; AND
The Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, SF-15.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the 30% disabled veterans hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


4.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


5.
Current Federal Employee Eligible for Transfer (Promotion)

To claim Transfer eligibility as a current federal employee, please confirm you are currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency, other than the Department of the Interior (DOI), AND:

You currently hold a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Trades Positions) You currently hold a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, representing your permanent, competitive status including:

Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1).
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current non-DOI federal agency employee with transfer eligibility to a higher level position?
 Yes
 No


6.
Current Federal Employee Eligible for Transfer (Lateral)

To claim Transfer eligibility as a current federal employee, please confirm:

You are currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency, other than the Department of the Interior (DOI), and currently hold or have previously held a position at or above the full performance level of this position.
(Trades Positions) You are currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency, other than the Department of the Interior (DOI), and currently hold or have previously held a position at a pay rate that is the same or higher than the position being advertised. 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, representing your permanent, competitive status including:
Career or Career-Conditional status (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND
Competitive Service status (Position Occupied field is 1). 
In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current non-DOI federal agency employee with transfer eligibility to a lateral position?
 Yes
 No


7.
Former Federal Employee Eligible for Reinstatement (Higher Level)

To claim Reinstatement eligibility as a former federal employee, please confirm you were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment, but are not currently a permanent competitive federal employee; AND that, while serving on that appointment, you met one of the following: 

You held a position at a grade level (or equivalent) that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position. 
(Trades Positions): You held a position at a pay rate that is at or below the advertised full performance level for this position.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, reflecting your permanent, competitive status reflecting one of the criteria listed in the below bullets: 

You are a former Federal employee who previously attained Career status (identified on your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) in Block 24 as "Tenure I" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years and previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service." 

In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a former federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility to a higher level position?



 Yes
 No


8.
Former Federal Employee Eligible for Reinstatement (Lateral)

To claim Reinstatement eligibility as a Former Federal Employee, please confirm you were you formerly employed as a federal civilian on a permanent competitive appointment, but are not currently a permanent competitive federal employee; AND that, while serving on that appointment, you met one of the following: 

You held the same grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised.
(Trades Positions): You held a position at the same or higher rate of pay as the position being advertised. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action, reflecting your permanent, competitive status reflecting one of the criteria listed in the below bullets: 

You are a former Federal employee who previously attained Career status (identified on your last Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) in Block 24 as "Tenure I" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service"; OR
You are a former Federal employee without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years and previously attained Career-Conditional status (identified on your last SF-50 in Block 24 as "Tenure II" and in Block 34 as "Competitive Service."

In addition to submitting your most recent SF-50, if you have held a higher grade level on a permanent basis please submit a copy of SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, which documents the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a former federal employee with Reinstatement eligibility to a lateral position?





 Yes
 No


9.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 Yes
 No


10.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance e (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


11.
Military Spouse

To claim Military Spouse eligibility under 5 CFR 315.612, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority and you are one of the following: 

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses currently married to members of the armed forces on active duty.
The military member must be on active duty in the armed forces or serving under orders specifying the individual is called or ordered to active duty for more than 180 consecutive days.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
There is no geographic limit under this category, You will be required to provide documentation of your spouse's disability.
Based on Service Member's Death - As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.
There is no geographic limitation under this category. You will be required to provide documentation on the death of the spouse and your marital status at the time of death.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility outlining one of the above. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information regarding Military Spouse, see the USAJOBS Help Center.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Military Spouse?
 Yes
 No


12.
Miscellaneous Appointing Authority

To claim eligibility under an alternate Miscellaneous Appointing Authority authorized by an OPM Interchange Agreement or another statute, please confirm you are a current or former employee of one of the below agencies:
Postal Service (Career).
Postal Rate Commission.
Government Accountability Office (GAO).
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts.
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense. 
Tennessee Valley Authority. 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
Federal Aviation Administration. 
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration. 
Corporation for National and Community Service.
Another agency with a miscellaneous appointing authority authorized by statutes outside of the 5 USC.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility by submitting copy(ies) of applicable personnel actions verifying current status of the above criteria with your application. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on miscellaneous appointing authorities, visit the U.S. Office of Personnel Management navigate to Types of Appointments, Interchange Agreements With Other Merit Systems.

Are you eligible under a Miscellaneous Appointing Authority?
 Yes
 No


13.
Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA Volunteer

To claim eligibility as a Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA Volunteer, please confirm:
You a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months; OR
You a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position; OR
You a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation outlining one of the above. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.

Are you eligible based on your status as a current or former Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA Volunteer?
 Yes
 No


14.
Special Hiring Authorities

To claim eligibility under a Special Appointing Authority under 5 CFR 315 (Subpart F), please confirm:
You are a former employee of the Canal Zone Merit System or Panama Canal Employment System; OR
You are a former employee who served in the Office of the President or Vice-President or on the White House Staff; OR
You are a disabled veteran who has completed a training course under Chapter 31 of Title 38, United States Code; OR
You are a former ACTION volunteer; OR
You are a certain current or former Foreign Service officer or employee; OR
You are a certain former Overseas employee; OR
You are a former employee of the Panama Canal Commission located in the United States; OR
You are a certain National Guard technician.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation outlining one of the above. For example, a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, or equivalent personnel action. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on individual special hiring authorities, visit the USAJOBS Special Authorities resource page.

Are you eligible to apply for one of the above Special Hiring Authorities?
 Yes
 No


15.
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA)
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference (this includes family members entitled to derived preference)

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service, and/or other documentation which shows you are entitled to veterans' preference which includes completed SF-15 for 10-point preference eligibles and the associated supporting documentation as outlined in the SF-15.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center - Veterans. 

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the VEOA?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


1.
If selected for this position, you will be required to file a Confidential Financial Disclosure Report (OGE-450) within 30 days of entrance on duty. Are you willing to complete the Confidential Financial Disclosure Report?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Communication & Instrumentation (C&I) Mechanic position with Bureau of Reclamation. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the response that best describes your experience performing the work of a journeyman level C & I Mechanic without more than normal supervision.

 I have not had education, training or experience in this task.
 I have completed education or training in this task but have not yet applied this education or training on the job.
 I have experience in an industrial setting which demonstrates my skill to perform work on electronic equipment which involved, installing, testing, maintaining, repairing and/or troubleshooting of electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, radio communications, programmable logic controllers, relaying and metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment, with no more than normal supervision.
 I have experience working in a powerplant (other than a hydroelectric plant) or large industrial plant, which demonstrates my skill to perform complex work on electronic equipment which includes, installation, testing, maintenance, repair and troubleshooting of electronic equipment such as, SCADA systems, radio communications, programmable logic controllers, relaying and metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment, with limited or no supervision.
 I have experience working in a hydroelectric powerplant which demonstrates my skill to independently handle complex problems on electronic equipment which includes, independently installing, maintaining, testing, repairing, and troubleshooting electronic equipment such as SCADA systems, radio communications, programmable logic controllers, relaying and metering, motor/valve controls and integrated electrical communications equipment.


2.
Select the one response that represents the apprenticeship or technical degree program you have completed in a trade or craft directly related to the position to be filled.
 I have completed a formal apprenticeship program (approximately 8,000 hours) recognized by the Department of Labor. The program was comprised of systematic on the job training supplemented with classroom instruction and correspondence courses at progressively increased levels of both practical and theoretical complexity.
 I have completed a technical degree program from an accredited college or vocational technical school (two-year program or 60 credit units minimum) in a trade or craft that included courses on theoretical principles and practical workshop experience.
 I have completed an employer or military sponsored technical training program comprised of progressively increased levels of on-the job training, formal classroom or correspondence coursework and I have applied these skills in the positions I have held.
 I have participated in a formal apprenticeship or technical training program but have yet to complete it.
 I have completed a formal apprenticeship program or a technical training program in a trade or craft not related to the position being filled.
 None of the above.


3.
From the following list, select all the safety standards, guidelines, or procedures you have received education or training AND have used in an industrial environment.
 A. Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 B. Hazardous Energy Control Program (HECP)
 C. Confined Space
 D. Hazwoper and Safety Data Sheets (SDS)
 E. Personal Fall Protection
 F. Workplace Safety and Health Standards
 G. National Fire Protection Administration Standards (NFPA), including National Electric Code
 H. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
 I. Emergency Communications Systems
 J. Electrical Safety
 K. None of the above


4.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience, in troubleshooting and repairing electronic-electrical equipment associated with a powerplant or industrial facility; repairing most if not all of the following: pumps, electrical control systems, remote indications, gate controls, valve controls, and power systems.
 None of the Above
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have journeyman-level experience in performing these tasks and have performed these tasks as a regular part of my job. I have performed these tasks independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior journeyman employee.
 I have journeyman-level experience performing these tasks and these tasks were a central or major part of my job. I have routinely performed and have trained others in the performance of these tasks and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing these tasks.


5.
Select the response that best describes your highest skill level in troubleshooting electronic equipment problems with test equipment.
 I have some experience with simple troubleshooting but would need help or close supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting simple problems with normal supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting to diagnose routine common and simple problems with normal or minimal supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks in a commercial/industrial environment with minimal supervision.
 I have experience troubleshooting to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with minimal or no supervision in a hydroelectric, nuclear, or steam powerplant.
 None of the above.


6.
Select the electrical theories and practices you have experience applying in a work environment:
 A. Ohm's Law
 B. Series and Parallel Circuits
 C. Power Analysis (such as 3 phase power, power factor, and load calculations)
 D. Transformer Theory
 E. Alternating Current Theory
 F. Direct Current Theory
 G. None of the above


7.
Have you utilized the National Electric Code (NEC) in performance of journeyman-level duties?
 Yes
 No


8.
Select the computer software programs you routinely use to accomplish your work.
 A. Doble Test Programs (any version)
 B. SEL Protective Relay Test Programs (any version)
 C. Advanced Visual Test Software (AVTS) Protective Relay Test Programs (e.g., RTS, Pulse Master, Protest, Omicron, Manta)
 D. Documenting Instrumentation Calibration Programs (e.g., AMS, DPC, TransCal, Cornerstone)
 E. None of the above


9.
Select the electrical and electronic equipment you have maintained in a commercial/ industrial or powerplant work environment.
 A. Alarm systems (Annunciator boards and controls)
 B. Generator controls and protection
 C. Electrical control circuits
 D. Circuit breakers (greater than 100 kV)
 E. Circuit breakers (less than 100 kV but greater than 1.0 kV)
 F. Electro-mechanical or digital governors
 G. AC and DC Motors and controls
 H. Metering equipment
 I. Rectifiers
 J. Programmable logic control (PLC) equipment
 K. Capacitors and Inductors
 L. Potential and current transformers
 M. DC battery systems (including charging equipment)
 N. AC UPS systems
 O. Commercial/Industrial control wiring
 P. None of the above


10.
Select the electrical test equipment you have operated or used in a powerplant or commercial/industrial work environment.
 A. Multi-meter
 B. Clamp-on ammeters
 C. Infrared gun or camera
 D. Doble
 E. AC and DC High Potential (Hi-Pot) test equipment
 F. Oscilloscopes
 G. Breaker timing tester
 H. Signal generator
 I. Fiber optical test equipment (fault locating, certification, losses, etc.)
 J. Frequency counters
 K. Insulation tester
 L. Logic analyzer
 M. Phase Shifter
 N. Spectrum Analyzer
 O. Power Quality Analyzer
 P. Protective relaying test set
 Q. Transducers
 R. None of the above


11.
Select the response that best reflects your experience using computerized relay test equipment.
 None of the above.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


12.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience with safe clearance (lockout/tagout) procedures.
 I have accepted/held clearances in a hydroelectric powerplant (greater than 1MW capacity) or large pumping plant and verified the clearance boundary.
 I have received clearances in a large powerplant (greater than 5 MW capacity) following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility following safe clearance and switching procedures.
 I have experience working under a clearance in an industrial maintenance facility and have followed safety procedures.
 I have no experience with safe clearance procedures.


13.
Select the following activities have you performed which require you to read and interpret drawings, manufacturer's instructions and maintenance manuals.
 A. I have experience fabricating parts using blueprints or drawings.
 B. I have experience performing major repairs on solid state electronic instruments or any type of electro/mechanical equipment utilizing manufacturer's drawings and instructions.
 C. I have experience using construction or electrical drawings, or manufacturer's instructions.
 D. I have technical coursework on blueprint reading, drafting, etc.
 E. I have used manufacturer's instructions to develop specifications for the acquisition of equipment or spare parts.
 F. I have used equipment maintenance manuals to develop preventative maintenance procedures and schedules for electrical and/or electronic equipment.
 G. I have used complex wiring diagrams and schematic drawings to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on electrical and/or electronic equipment.
 H. I have used manufacturer's instructions to troubleshoot and perform major repairs on electrical and/or electronic equipment.
 I. None of the above


14.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of skill using electrical and electronic wiring diagrams.
 I have used these diagrams but would need help interpreting them or close supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to perform simple and common tasks with normal supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose routine simple and common tasks with limited supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with normal supervision.
 I have used these diagrams to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with no supervision and have used these diagrams to instruct others.
 None of the above


15.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙