Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator (Materials Handler)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-27-13081921-DHA
Open Period
Oct 03, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
MQ Only JW JT97098570306 13081921 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Motor Vehicle Operator (Materials Handler) position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Required From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Motor Vehicle Operator (Materials Handler) duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex motor vehicle operator and material handler activities in a warehouse setting. I am skilled in assigning tasks to be performed to other workers based on instructions received from a supervisor. I am able to safely operate vehicles and equipment weighing up to 22,000 pounds. I have the ability to safely load and arrange cargo onto vehicles and in the warehouse. I am skilled at receiving, storing, issuing, and inventorying materials in a warehouse. I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise.
 I have the ability to perform a full range of motor vehicle operator leader and material handler leader activities in a warehouse setting. I am skilled in safely transporting equipment, supplies, and materials with supervisor's instructions. I am capable of assisting other workers with task completion. I am able to track materials throughout the warehouse. I work on my own initiative subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common motor vehicle operator leader and material handler leader tasks. I can encourage and lead other employees to follow instructions. In addition, I can demonstrate proper work methods in a warehouse environment.
 I have the ability to perform simple motor vehicle operator leader and material handler leader tasks. I can work alongside motor vehicle operators and material handlers or I have received training on how to cook a variety of menu items.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
