Position Title
POWER PLANT OPERATOR CREW SUPERVISOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-13027552-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Operator Crew Supervisor position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Operator Crew Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to lead or supervise the most difficult and complex tasks as a journeyman level power plant operator. I am skilled in furnishing guidance and instructions and explain how and what tasks are to be done in accomplishing the assignments. In addition, I am able to coordinate work needs with other crafts and sections for overall efficiency. I am able to set the pace for work accomplishments and can explain and instruct others of the same or lower grades. I am able to inspect, accept, or reject work of others. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to lead or supervise the full range of tasks as a journeyman level power plant operator. I am skilled in furnishing guidance and instructions and explain how and what tasks are to be done in accomplishing the assignments. I am able to set the pace for work accomplishments and can explain and instruct others of the same or lower grades. I work on my own initiative under general supervisory subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to lead or supervise common tasks as a journeyman level power plant operator. I can transmit instructions into working assignments or tasks for a crew of journey level Power Plant Operators. I am able to set the pace for work accomplishments and can explain and instruct others of the same or lower grades. I am able to keep work progressing to meet the schedule. I work under normal supervision of a work leader who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks as a power plant operator such as directing lower grade power plant operator trainees in accomplishing simple tasks.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy.  Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my support documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙