Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (Real Property)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12960483-R Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to Oct 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Huntsville, AL
 AB. Mobile, AL
 AY. Phoenix, AZ
 AZ. Tucson, AZ
 BA. Little Rock, AR
 BB. Los Angeles, CA
 BC. Sacramento, CA
 BD. San Diego, CA
 BE. San Francisco, CA
 BF. San Jose, CA
 BG. Aurora, CO
 BH. Colorado Springs, CO
 BI. Denver, CO
 BJ. Durango, CO
 BK. Grand Junction, CO
 BL. Littleton, CO
 BM. Washington, DC
 BN. Jacksonville, FL
 BO. Miami, FL
 BP. Orlando, FL
 BQ. Tampa, FL
 BR. Atlanta, GA
 BS. Savannah, GA
 BT. Chicago, IL
 BU. Indianapolis, IN
 BV. Des Moines, IA
 B. Louisville, KY
 C. New Orleans, LA
 D. Baltimore, MD
 E. Boston, MA
 F. Detroit, MI
 G. Arden Hills, MN
 H. Minneapolis, MN
 I. Vicksburg, MS
 J. Kansas City, MO
 K. Saint Louis, MO
 L. Billings, MT
 M. Helena, MT
 N. Omaha, NE
 O. Las Vegas, NV
 P. Albuquerque, NM
 Q. New York, NY
 R. Charlotte, NC
 S. Wilmington, NC
 T. Bismarck, ND
 U. Jamestown, ND
 V. Minot AFB, ND
 W. Columbus, OH
 X. Oklahoma City, OK
 Y. Tulsa, OK
 Z. Portland, OR
 AA. Philadelphia, PA
 AC. Pittsburgh, PA
 AD. Charleston, SC
 AE. Pierre, SD
 AF. Rapid City, SD
 AG. Memphis, TN
 AH. Nashville, TN
 AI. Austin, TX
 AJ. Belton, TX
 AK. Dallas, TX
 AL. El Paso, TX
 AM. Fort Worth, TX
 AN. Galveston, TX
 AO. Houston, TX
 AP. San Antonio, TX
 AQ. Dugway, UT
 AR. Salt Lake City, UT
 AS. Norfolk, VA
 AT. Virginia Beach, VA
 AU. Seattle, WA
 AV. Huntington, WV
 AW. Milwaukee, WI
 AX. Cheyenne, WY


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Attorney-Adviser (Real Property), position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (Real Property) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.).
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (Real Property) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have two or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, performing the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: 1) providing legal advice during various stages of the real estate acquisition process.; 2) reviewing legal documents to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies. 3) drafting documents associated with real estate acquisitions; 4) Preparing attorney title opinions consistent with statutory and constitutional requirements; 5) Reviewing all legal instruments and/or documents with potential legal ramifications. (Experience must be documented in your resume.)
 I have an advance law degree such as an LLM (masters of law) or a graduate with a distinguished record from an ABA-Accredited Law School in the top 25% of the class which I may substitute for one year of the required professional legal experience and I have one year of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: 1) providing legal advice during various stages of the real estate acquisition process.; 2) reviewing legal documents to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies. 3) drafting documents associated with real estate acquisitions; 4) Preparing attorney title opinions consistent with statutory and constitutional requirements; 5) Reviewing all legal instruments and/or documents with potential legal ramifications. (Experience must be documented in your resume.)
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


3.
Are you a member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?

 Yes
 No


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙