Position Title
Contract Specialist (Early Career - Procurement)
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
CGA-DHA-12950587-26-CL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current federal employee being displaced from a federal position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a federal position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Federal employee in the civil service?

Note: This data is collected for informational purposes only. Federal employment is not required for this position. Eligibility is not affected by the response to this question.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
Thank you for your interest in the US Government Early Careers program! We appreciate your willingness to explore public service opportunities. After completing the assessment process associated with this application, you may be contacted by one or more federal agencies for final interviews. The questions that follow will help us match you with the agencies that best fit your preferences, strengths, and what you hope to learn and contribute as you serve the American people.


1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Do you have a preference for specific federal agencies? If so, please select all agencies that interest you. While your preferences will be taken into account, placement cannot be guaranteed.
 A. No preference – I am open to any
 B. Department of Agriculture
 C. Department of Commerce
 D. Department of Education
 E. Department of Energy
 F. Department of Health and Human Services
 G. Department of Homeland Security
 H. Department of Housing and Urban Development
 I. Department of the Interior
 J. Department of Justice
 K. Department of Labor
 L. Department of State
 M. Department of Transportation
 N. Department of the Treasury
 O. Department of Veterans' Affairs
 P. Department of War
 Q. Environmental Protection Agency
 R. General Services Administration
 S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration
 T. National Science Foundation
 U. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
 V. Office of Personnel Management
 W. Small Business Administration
 X. Social Security Administration
 Y. Other


3.
Briefly tell us a little more about your career aspirations. What inspires you to pursue a Contracting or Procurement role within the Federal government? Additionally, let us know if you are interested in specific areas within this field.


4.
Briefly describe a project that you worked on and are most proud of. This can include experiences drawn from school, work, military service, internships, volunteer activities, extracurriculars, or personal projects.


5.
This position requires you to work at a federal worksite; it is not a remote work opportunity. If you are selected, you will be expected to report for work in a federal building. Please indicate the top 5 locations you are willing to work in by selecting up to 5 locations below.

Note: The geographic areas listed below correspond with locality pay tables available on the OPM website: www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/pay-leave/salaries-wages/2026/general-schedule.
 A. Albany-Schenectady, NY-MA
 AB. Albuquerque-Santa Fe-Las Vegas, NM
 AI. Atlanta--Athens-Clarke County--Sandy Springs, GA-AL
 AJ. Austin-Round Rock-Georgetown, TX
 AK. Birmingham-Hoover-Talladega, AL
 AL. Boston-Worcester-Providence, MA-RI-NH-CT-ME-VT
 AM. Buffalo-Cheektowaga-Olean, NY
 AN. Burlington-South Burlington-Barre, VT
 AO. Charlotte-Concord, NC-SC
 AP. Chicago-Naperville, IL-IN-WI
 AQ. Cincinnati-Wilmington-Maysville, OH-KY-IN
 AR. Cleveland-Akron-Canton, OH-PA
 AS. Colorado Springs, CO
 AT. Columbus-Marion-Zanesville, OH
 AU. Corpus Christi-Kingsville-Alice, TX
 AV. Dallas-Fort Worth, TX-OK
 AW. Davenport-Moline, IA-IL
 AX. Dayton-Springfield-Kettering, OH
 AY. Denver-Aurora, CO
 AZ. Des Moines-Ames-West Des Moines, IA
 BA. Detroit-Warren-Ann Arbor, MI
 BB. Fresno-Madera-Hanford, CA
 BC. Harrisburg-Lebanon, PA
 BD. Hartford-East Hartford, CT-MA
 BE. Houston-The Woodlands, TX
 BF. Huntsville-Decatur, AL-TN
 B. Indianapolis-Carmel-Muncie, IN
 C. Kansas City-Overland Park-Kansas City, MO-KS
 D. Laredo, TX
 E. Las Vegas-Henderson, NV-AZ
 F. Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA
 G. Miami-Port St. Lucie-Fort Lauderdale, FL
 H. Milwaukee-Racine-Waukesha, WI
 I. Minneapolis-St. Paul, MN-WI
 J. New York-Newark, NY-NJ-CT-PA
 K. Omaha-Council Bluffs-Fremont, NE-IA
 L. Palm Bay-Melbourne-Titusville, FL
 M. Philadelphia-Reading-Camden, PA-NJ-DE-MD
 N. Phoenix-Mesa, AZ
 O. Pittsburgh-New Castle-Weirton, PA-OH-WV
 P. Portland-Vancouver-Salem, OR-WA
 Q. Raleigh-Durham-Cary, NC
 R. Reno-Fernley, NV
 S. Richmond, VA
 T. Rochester-Batavia-Seneca Falls, NY
 U. Sacramento-Roseville, CA-NV
 V. San Antonio-New Braunfels-Pearsall, TX
 W. San Diego-Chula Vista-Carlsbad, CA
 X. San Jose-San Francisco-Oakland, CA
 Y. Seattle-Tacoma, WA
 Z. Spokane-Spokane Valley-Coeur d'Alene, WA-ID
 AA. St. Louis-St. Charles-Farmington, MO-IL
 AC. Tucson-Nogales, AZ
 AD. Virginia Beach-Norfolk, VA-NC
 AE. Washington-Baltimore-Arlington, DC-MD-VA-WV-PA
 AF. State of Alaska
 AG. State of Hawaii
 AH. Rest of United States (Consisting of those portions of the United States and its territories and possessions not located within another locality pay area listed above)


6.
What is your earliest available full-time start date?


7.

Which of the following best describes how you have used digital or AI-enabled tools in school, work, military service, internships, volunteer activities, extracurriculars, or personal projects? Select all that apply.

 A. Organizing or analyzing data
 B. Drafting or improving written materials
 C. Summarizing documents or source materials
 D. Creating reports, dashboards, or presentations
 E. Conducting research or information gathering
 F. Supporting project coordination or workflow management
 G. Troubleshooting technical or operational issues
 H. Automating or simplifying repetitive tasks
 I. Collaborating using digital platforms or tools
 J. Using AI-enabled tools responsibly while reviewing outputs for accuracy and appropriateness
 K. I have limited or no experience using these tools


8.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


9.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


10.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


11.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


12.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


13.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please respond to the following item regarding the Basic Requirement for the Contracting Series (1102) in the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirement for the Contracting Series (1102).

 I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have successfully completed at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 On January 1, 2000, I held a position in the Federal government in the Contracting Series (1102), and my position was equivalent to grade GS-05 or higher. I have continually held this occupational series since January 1, 2000. (Must submit SF-50s.)
 I do not have the education or meet the exception described above and do not qualify for this position.


Please respond to the following items regarding Minimum Qualifications for Contract Specialist, GS-07, GS-09, and GS-11 positions. To meet Minimum Qualifications, you must have at least one cumulative year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) or possess the education described below.


2.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet Minimum Qualifications for the GS-07 grade level.
 I have at least one cumulative year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing at least 3 of the 4 following duties: 1) Reviewing technical or administrative documents to ensure they are complete and accurate; 2) Applying regulations, procedural manuals, or policy guidance to support recommendations; 3) Preparing written materials such as reports, summaries, memoranda, correspondence, or instructions, or conducting background research to present information clearly; 4) Reviewing data for accuracy to identify discrepancies or recommend workflow improvements.
 I have successfully completed 1 full academic year (18 semester hours or equivalent) of graduate education or law school. My field of study was in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have less than the amount of specialized experience described in "A" and less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B", but I have a combination such that they total 100 percent when combined. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed above; then compute your graduate education as a percentage of the graduate education listed above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate-level education may be combined with specialized experience. (Must be reflected in your resume, and must submit transcripts.)
 I meet the Superior Academic Achievement requirements: A bachelor's degree, AND I meet one of the following: (1) Grade point average of "B" (GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; (2) Grade point average of "B+" (GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in my major field of study, or those courses in my major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; (3) Rank in the upper one-third of my class in my college, university, or major subdivision; or (4) Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. (Must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements, and I am not qualified for this position at the GS-07 grade level.


3.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet Minimum Qualifications for the GS-09 grade level.
 I have at least one cumulative year of experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing at least 3 of the 4 following duties: 1) Analyzing contract materials, technical specifications, or financial statements to support acquisition-related documentation; 2) Reviewing contract proposals for pricing, technical capability, or adherence to specifications to inform award decisions; 3) Preparing reports, summaries, memoranda, correspondence, instructions, or background research to support procurement or operational decisions; 4) Responding to inquiries to provide business or administrative recommendations.
 I have successfully completed 2 full academic years (36 semester hours or equivalent) of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree or LL.B. or J.D. My field of study was in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have less than the amount of specialized experience described in "A" and less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B", but I have a combination such that they total 100 percent when combined. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed above; then compute your graduate education as a percentage of the graduate education listed above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate-level education in excess of one year (18 semester hours or equivalent) may be combined with specialized experience. (Must be reflected in your resume, and must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements, and I am not qualified for this position at the GS-09 grade level.


4.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes how you meet Minimum Qualifications for the Contract Specialist, GS-1102-11 grade level.
 I have at least one cumulative year of experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (or comparable level of experience from outside the Federal service) performing at least 3 of the 4 following duties: 1) Preparing or reviewing solicitation, award, contract administration, or closeout materials to support acquisition actions; 2) Analyzing contract proposals, pricing, technical capability, or compliance information to support award or administration decisions; 3) Conducting market research or supplier analysis to support acquisition planning or recommendations; 4) Monitoring contractor performance, deliverables, reports, or related issues to recommend next steps.
 I have successfully completed 3 full academic years (54 semester hours or equivalent) of progressively higher-level graduate education or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. My field of study was in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I have less than the amount of specialized experience described in "A" and less than the full amount of graduate education described in "B", but I have a combination such that they total 100 percent when combined. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed above; then compute your education as a percentage of the education listed above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate-level education in excess of two years (36 semester hours or equivalent) may be combined with experience. (Must be reflected in your resume, and must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements, and I am not qualified for this position at the GS-11 grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙