Position Title
INSPECTOR GENERAL (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12933695-AR-26-092 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for Missouri Army National Guard.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Missouri Army National Guard.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of this position that demonstrates skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately; ability to clearly enunciate English without impediment of speech that would interfere or prohibit; effective two-way radio or telephone communication; write English in reports and presentation formats; communicate orally and in writing clearly and effectively; skill in interpersonal communications, empathy, and effective listening; organize thoughts, research materials, and manage case projects; and skill in comprehending and interpreting directives and laws?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS 12 grade level that provided expert knowledge of all applicable Inspector General Program principles and practices related to federal civilian, military, and National Guard, operational, administrative and technical programs; experience planning for and executing inspector general programs and using software data systems; ability to receive and accurately resolve complaints by listening and providing assistance to the complainant in identifying the problem; ability to make oral and written reports, presentations, and prepare graphs and charts; knowledge of a broad range of management, leadership, and organizational situations that will, or has the potential to, affect the command's policies and procedures; and experience identifying potentially controversial findings, issues, or problems with widespread impacts?
 Yes
 No


3.
In detail, explain your experience performing Investigation of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse, Whistle Blower Reprisal, and Restriction IAW USC 1070 and DOD IG Policy.


4.
In detail, explain your experience overseeing Investigations into IG misconduct or mishandling.


5.
In detail, explain your experience determining responsiveness of organizational replies and adequacy of response/corrective actions taken to issues referred to the command for investigation.


6.
In detail, explain your experience inspecting assigned areas to identify procedural deficiencies and compliance with regulatory procedures.


7.
In detail, explain your experience participating in developing courses of action to assist all levels of management across functional lines throughout the State and higher headquarters for resolution of controversial issues/problems.


8.
In detail, explain your experience of exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from  further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙