Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
Announcement Number
OPR-13027082-IMP-DS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security employee eligible for a status appointment under an Interchange Agreement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Department of Homeland Security employee in the competitive service who is serving on a career or career-conditional appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service? If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I acknowledge that I am solely responsible for the answers and documentation submitted in my online application. I understand that my answers cannot be altered once I have submitted my application and the announcement has closed. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information contained in my online application for Federal Employment is true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that a false or fraudulent answer to any question or item on any part of my online application may be grounds for not hiring me, or for firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title 18, United States Code).

By clicking "Yes" below, I certify that I accept responsibility for the responses and documentation submitted in my online application and that the information I have provided is true to the best of my knowledge.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do any of your family members work for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement?

(A family member means an individual with any of the following relationships to the applicant: (1) Spouse, and parents thereof; (2) Sons and daughters, and spouses thereof; (3) Parents, and spouses thereof; (4) Brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; (5) Grandparents and grandchildren, and spouses thereof; (6) Domestic partner and parents thereof, including domestic partners of any individual in (2) through (5) of this definition; and (7) Any individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.)

 Yes
 No


5.
If the answer to the question above is yes, please provide the relative(s)' name, relationship, and the ICE office or organization for which your relative(s) works (if known).

If the answer to the question above is no, please indicate 'not applicable'.


Assessment 1
The following question will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum basic requirements for the GS-0510 job series. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements and qualifying experience.


1.
Which of the following statements best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the basic educational requirements for Accountant positions?
 I have a degree from an accredited college or university in accounting and/or auditing or in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term accounting means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, accountant should be interpreted, generally as "accountant or auditor").
 I have a combination of education and experience of at least 4 years of experience in a professional accounting position or combination accounting experience, college level education, training AND 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses which can include 6 hours of business law.
 I have a combination of education and experience of at least 4 years of experience in a professional accounting position or combination accounting experience, college level education, training AND a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor certification (from written exam).
 I have a combination of education and experience of at least 4 years of experience in a professional accounting position or combination accounting experience, college level education, training AND a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of question B, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph b; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not possess the education or experience described above.


The following questions will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position. You may wish to consult the vacancy announcement for a description of those requirements.


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent performing duties such as:
Performing financial audits, including researching, analyzing information, identifying problems, and detailing findings;
Adhering to accounting and auditing policies and regulations;
Providing analysis and advice regarding accounting programs and financial systems;
Serving as a mid-level accountant providing accounting services which support agency/department programs and components.
 Yes, I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level as described above.
 No, I do not possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level as described above.


3.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent performing duties such as:
Reviewing and interpreting regulations, directives, and guidelines affecting assigned programs.
Briefing management on accounting review technical information, findings, and compliance determinations.
Identifying and reporting problems that are valid and can be factually depicted and supported.
Complying with financial management systems with established requirements and standards.
 Yes, I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level as described above.
 No, I do not possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙