Position Title
MWR Recreation Specialist (Fitness)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12802939 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2025 to Sep 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to work an Flexible work schedule. This schedule describes work performed without a regularly scheduled tour of duty; hours are from 0-40 hours per week.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Recreation Specialist (Fitness Instructor) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a minimum of one-year specialized experience planning, organizing and conducting a physical fitness program to include both group and individual fitness assessments, guidance and training?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a current nationally recognized fitness certification and CPR/First Aid certification?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience planning, organizing and conducting a physical fitness program to include both group and individual fitness assessments, guidance and training.
 I am currently/was previously a fitness instructor with the Department of the Navy (DON) Navy NAF.
 I am currently/was previously a fitness instructor with the Department of Defense (DOD).
 I am currently/was previously a fitness instructor within private sector.
 I have no experience as a fitness instructor within DON, DOD or private sector.


4.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience with various strength training machines, cardiovascular fitness equipment and various fitness programs and techniques.
 I have 5+ years of experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment and various fitness programs and techniques.
 I have 3-5 years of experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment and various fitness programs and techniques.
 I have 1-3 years of experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment and various fitness programs and techniques.
 I have no experience with various strength training machines and cardiovascular fitness equipment and various fitness programs and techniques.


5.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience working with command representatives in developing and implementing physical fitness programs for military personnel.
 I have 5+ years of experience working with command representatives in developing and implementing physical fitness programs for military personnel.
 I have 3-5 years of experience working with command representatives in developing and implementing physical fitness programs for military personnel.
 I have 1-3 years of experience working with command representatives in developing and implementing physical fitness programs for military personnel.
 I have no experience working with command representatives in developing and implementing physical fitness programs for military personnel.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙