Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Fuels)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
R4-26-12897885-WA-FDHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualification


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Minimum Qualifications for GS-0456-09
 I possess one year of specialized wildland fire management experience equivalent to at least the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience may include: develop and revise fire management planning documents for long range wildland fire control and prescribed burns; organize and complete preparedness activities as it pertains to fire equipment, supplies, and fire personnel; analyze incident objectives, strategies and tactics, safety, cost effectiveness/efficiency; experience working with various resources and agencies in order to accomplish work.
 I do not have the education and/or experience as described above in A.


This position is subject to the qualifications and additional required training specified in the Interagency Fire Program Management (IFPM) Qualifications Standards and Guide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I currently hold or have held the NWCG qualifications: Primary Core Requirement:
Prescribed Fire Burn Boss, Type 2 (RXB2)
Secondary Core Requirement:
Single Resource Boss, Engine (ENGB)
or
Single Resource Boss, Crew (CRWB)
or
Single Resource Boss, Helicopter (HMGB)
I will provide a copy of my IQCS master record or equivalent documentation as instructed in the vacancy announcement.

 Yes
 No


Certification


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙