Position Title
Front Desk Associate
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
NOLA 33-2026 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to May 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
MSP- If you do not currently reside within the local commuting area, are you an active-duty spouse PCSing to the area within 30 days and submitting all required documents to claim Military Spouse Preference?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Select the response applicable to you:
 I have at least one (1) year experience performing clerical, office, or other work duties that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled.
 I have successful completion of two (2) years of study in any field. (Transcripts required).
 I have an equivalent combination of education and/or experience as described above. (Transcripts required).
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of specialized experience do you have performing front desk and/or reservation functions for a lodging program and/or hospitality operation (such as a hotel, resort, time-share, rental property, etc.)?
 I do not possess experience as stated above.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience as stated above.
 I possess between one (1) year, and two (2) years of experience as stated above.
 I possess more than two (2) years of experience as stated above.


3.
How many years' experience do you have using a computer and various software programs?
 I have two (2) or more year's experience with the above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) year's experience with the above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year experience with the above.
 I have less than six (6) months experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years' experience do you have handling and being accountable for cash and/or payment receipts (such as credit card receipts)?
 I have two (2) or more year's experience with the above.
 I have one (1) to two (2) year's experience with the above.
 I have six (6) months to one (1) year experience with the above.
 I have less than six (6) months experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙