Position Title
Interdisciplinary
Agency
Joint Activities
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-12996428-CES Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 1550 - Computer Science
 B. 1560 - Data Science Series


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary (Computer Scientist, Data Scientist) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Computer Scientist at the GG-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in computer science or bachelor's degree (or higher degree) with 30 semester hours in a combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science. At least 15 of the 30 semester hours must have included any combination of statistics and mathematics that included differential and integral calculus. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Data Scientist at the GG-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in mathematics, statistics, computer science, data science or field directly related to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major field of study as shown in paragraph A above, plus additional education or appropriate experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes directly applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in this position as a GG-1550-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. Qualifying experience may have been acquired in any public or private sector job, but will clearly demonstrate your past experience in the application of the particular competencies or knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of this position. Such experience is typically in or directly related to the work of the position to be filled.


 I have one year of specialized experience which includes formulating solutions for technical problems; developing and applying specialized scientific methodologies; tracking digital asset flows for cyber operations; and leading a team focused on cyber security operations and priorities.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙