Position Title
Recreation Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12917989 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


3.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


4.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Recreation Assistant position at the Fitness Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position may require for applicants to have or be able to obtain and maintain the following certification within 30-days of being hired: 
CPR First Aid 
AED Certification
And

Have or be able to obtain and maintain the following certification within 90-days of being hired: 

Blood-Borne Pathogen Training
Navy Basic Fitness Certification

Would you be able to meet these instructions? 

 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the option as it best relates to your cash handling knowledge/experience.
 No knowledge or experience with cash handling.
 Intermediate - Comfortable operating a register, supervise other cash handlers, and balancing drawers.
 Advanced - Significant experience in cash management, held supervisory roles and responsibility for large amount of cash.
 Entry - Limited experience providing customer service while performing basic cash handling.


3.
What is your level of experience to operate a computer and have a basic knowledge of software packages such as Microsoft Office and Internet Explorer?
 Entry– I can perform basic tasks like opening files, typing, and print.
 Intermediate – I can navigate the operating system and use common programs at a basic level (Word, PowerPoint, etc.)
 Advanced – I can operate multiple software's, and operate common programs at an advance level without supervision (Excel, Adobe, etc.)
 I have no experience operating computers and software.


4.
How would you rate your ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing?
 Limited communication experience.
 Comfortable with basic communication but need improvement.
 Strong verbal and written communication skills.
 Excellent communicator with experience in professional writing and public speaking.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙