Position Title
Safety and Occupational Health Manager
Agency
Defense Health Agency
Announcement Number
HQKF-26-13049704-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 15% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 15% of the time?
 Yes
 No


4.
Appointment to this position is subject to a two year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Safety and Occupational Health Manager position with Defense Health Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Safety and Occupational Health Manager at the GS-13/DJ-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12/DJ-03 grade level in the Federal service in or related to safety and occupational health that provided the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, which includes (1) Experience identifying, assessing, mitigating and monitoring safety, occupation health, and environmental compliance risks in biomedical research and development laboratories. (2) Experience designing, implementing, and managing comprehensive Safety and Occupational Health programs for biomedical research and development laboratories (3) Experience conducting compliance inspections in biomedical research and development facilities (4) Experience communicating complex risk and safety concepts to senior leaders, technical staff, and external stakeholders, both orally and in writing.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙