Position Title
Attorney-Advisor (General)
Agency
Government Publishing Office
Announcement Number
26-13045377-DE-DM Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is open to All U.S. Citizens (Competitive).  When a job opportunity announcement is open to "All U.S. Citizens", it means that anyone with U.S. Citizenship may apply.  Job seekers may use the  Self-Check through E-Verify https://www.uscis.gov to verify citizenship, if available in their state of residence.  
 
Please note that Status candidates, Status (Merit Promotion), may also elect to be considered under  "All U.S. Citizens (Competitive)". 

Are  you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
Employment of Relatives
Section 3110 of Title 5, U.S. Code, prohibits a Federal official from appointing, promoting, or advocating the appointment or promotion of a relative in the agency where the official is serving or exercises jurisdiction. In addition, Section 2302(b)(7) of Title 5, U.S. Code, makes it a "prohibited personnel practice" for a person in authority to "appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for the appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement of a relative.

Please respond to the following questions below:


1.
Do you have any relatives working for the Agency for which you are applying?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered yes to the previous question, please provide the name, relationship, organization employed within, and location if known.
If you did not answer yes to the previous questions, please state not applicable (N/A) in the text box.


3.

If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not Applicable


4.
If you are a Federal employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, competitive service
 Career-conditional Appointment, competitive service
 Career Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted service - Treasury - Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Permanent Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Other Excepted Service Appointment (Government Accountability Office)
 Excepted Service Appointment (other than listed)
 Temporary (Time-Limited Appointment - not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Term (Time-Limited Appointment - more than one year, not more than 4 years)
 Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 Not Applicable


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.
00
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
Other
n/a


7.
Are you a retiree receiving a Federal annuity, either military or civilian?

Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.
 Yes
 No


This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment; and, conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


8.
This position requires you to successfully pass pre-employment prior to appointment. Are you willing undergo the pre-employment process prior to appointment?
 Yes
 No


9.
This position requires that the applicant obtain and maintain a Secret Security Clearance. Are you willing to obtain and maintain a Secret Security Clearance.
 Yes
 No


10.
Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Have you included all of the above information in your resume
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Thank you for applying to the Attorney-Advisor (General), PG-0905-14 position located at the U.S. Government Publishing Office (GPO), Office of the Inspector General (OIG). You will be evaluated on your responses to the assessment questionnaire; then we will compare your responses against your resume and supporting documentation. If you rate yourself higher than is supported by your application materials, your responses may be adjusted and/or you may be excluded from consideration for this position.
Please Note: Your resume MUST clearly identify the dates that support this experience (month/year to month/year); as well as the number of hours worked per week for each position.

 

Applicants must meet ALL of the following requirements to be considered for this position. 



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

EDUCATION REQUIREMENT:   Attorneys must possess a Juris Doctorate (J.D.) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from an accredited school.

Have you successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and possess a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.)?

NOTE: You must submit copies of relevant transcripts with your application. 

 Yes
 No


2.

LICENSED ATTORNEY AND BAR MEMBERSHIP:  A current, valid license with eligibility to practice law in a state, the District of Columbia, or any United States territory or commonwealth to include active bar membership is required. Admission to the bar of any State, territory, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, or Federal Court is acceptable. You must be an active member in good standing of the bar of a State or Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Active Bar membership is verified prior to appointment. You must maintain active bar membership while employed as an attorney with GPO.

Are you an active bar member in good standing of a bar of a State or Territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia and are you able and willing to maintain active bar membership while employed as an attorney with GPO?

NOTE: You must submit a copy of active bar membership with your application. 

 Yes
 No


3.
LEGAL EXPERIENCE:  You must possess three (3) years of professional legal experience post bar admission with one year of experience that is equivalent to the PG/GS-13 grade level. Qualifying expereince is providing legal advice on employment law matters, as well as providing representation in administrative/judicial proceedings. 
NOTE: Law Clerk experience is not qualifying. Experience must be as a licensed Attorney to be creditable.  

Select the statement that best demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Attorney-Advisor (General) at the PG-14 grade level.
 Yes, I possess at least three years of professional legal experience post bar admission with at least one year of legal experience that is equivalent to the PG/GS-13 grade level which includes providing legal advice on employment law matters, as well as providing representation in administrative/judicial proceedings.
 No, I do not possess the experience stated above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
ETHICS DISCLOSURE:  Do you have any pending allegations or previous findings of ethics, judicial, or other professional misconduct by any state or attorney disciplinary committee?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙