Position Title
SUPPLY TECHNICIAN
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12850702-AR-26-013 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E3  - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E3  - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E3  - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses experience, education, or training in a variety of operations or situations concerned with substance or content of supply actions, requiring ability to decide course of action to take, considering the circumstances or conditions encountered. Experience using computer and automation systems.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you posses at least 12 months experience, education, or training which demonstrates a thorough knowledge of governing supply regulations, policies, procedures, and instructions applicable to the specific assignment. Experience conducting extensive searches for required information; reconstructing records for complex supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for activities involving specialized or unique supplies, equipment, or parts. Experience performing routine aspects of supply work based on practical knowledge of standard procedures, where assignments include individual case problems related to a limited segment in one of the major areas of supply management.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe your experience managing a Depot Level Repairable (DLR) or similar repairable items program. Walk me through the process you used for procuring a critical high-cost part ensuring the unserviceable item was returned, and the account was properly credited.



4.

Tell me about a time you were responsible for a significant property book inventory. What steps did you take to prepare for, conduct, and reconcile the inventory? How did you use hand receipts and an automated accounting system to ensure 100% accountability of all assigned equipment?



5.

Recall a situation where you had to source an urgent, mission-critical item that was not available through standard supply channels. Explain how you identified alternative sources, coordinated with external agencies like AMCOM or civilian vendors, and successfully acquired the item to prevent a work stoppage.



6.

Explain your methodology for determining stock replenishment levels for centrally controlled items. Provide an example of how you analyzed usage data and funding limitations to set levels that met operational needs without resulting in excess accumulation or waste.



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙