Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (Tax) (Senior Technician Reviewer)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCLO-26-13049955-ATTY Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Chief Counsel Attorney

Are you a current Office of Chief Counsel, IRS Attorney who is eligible as an Internal Candidate?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 2 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 Y. Phoenix, AZ
 Z. Lake Forest, CA
 AA. Los Angeles, CA
 AB. Sacramento, CA
 AC. San Diego, CA
 AD. San Francisco, CA
 AE. San Jose, CA
 AF. Thousand Oaks, CA
 AG. Denver, CO
 AH. East Hartford, CT
 AI. Washington, DC
 AJ. Jacksonville, FL
 AK. Miami, FL
 AL. Plantation, FL
 AM. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AN. Atlanta, GA
 AO. Honolulu, HI
 AP. Chicago, IL
 AQ. Indianapolis, IN
 AR. Louisville, KY
 AS. New Orleans, LA
 AT. Baltimore, MD
 AU. New Carrollton, MD
 AV. Boston, MA
 AW. Detroit, MI
 B. Saint Paul, MN
 C. Kansas City, MO
 D. Saint Louis, MO
 E. Las Vegas, NV
 F. Newark, NJ
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. New York, NY
 I. Westbury, NY
 J. Greensboro, NC
 K. Cincinnati, OH
 L. Independence, OH
 M. Oklahoma City, OK
 N. Portland, OR
 O. Philadelphia, PA
 P. Pittsburgh, PA
 Q. Nashville, TN
 R. Austin, TX
 S. Farmers Branch, TX
 T. Houston, TX
 U. Salt Lake City, UT
 V. Richmond, VA
 W. Seattle, WA
 X. Milwaukee, WI


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with Chief Counsels Directives Manual 39.1.2.6 . Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to placement in this position and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes, I am willing to meet this requirement.
 No, I am not willing to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No
 NA - One year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed


3.

Under internal Excepted Service procedures, current Chief Counsel employees must have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade to satisfy time-in-grade restrictions. Please select the response that best describes your time-in-grade.
 I have served 52 weeks at the next lower grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 I have previously occupied a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Attorney-Adviser (Tax) (Senior Technician Reviewer) position with the IRS - Office of the Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia, or commonwealth of Puerto Rico?

 Yes
 No


2.
List all states and/or territories in which you are an active member in good standing of the bar and the date in which you were admitted? (i.e. Florida - January 1, 2015)



3.
Select the one statement that best describes the qualifications you possess that demonstrate your ability to perform the work of Attorney-Adviser (Tax) (Senior Technician Reviewer) at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal Service.
 I have a J.D. Degree from an ABA accredited law school AND at least 1 year of general professional legal experience, plus 3 years of professional legal tax experience. This experience included at least 52 weeks of professional legal tax work experience (comparable to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service) as detailed in the announcement.
 I have an LL.M. in the field of the position from an ABA accredited law school AND 3 years of professional legal tax experience. This experience included at least 52 weeks of professional legal tax work experience (comparable to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service) as detailed in the announcement.
 My education and experience are not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙