Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Imaging Program Administrator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-13014290-26-SC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the following Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position under Diagnostic Imagining at Madison, WI! This position is for the following grade levels: 
GS-0647-13
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.Basic GS-05; Basic Requirements:  None beyond the basic requirements. Please answer the next few questions:  Do you have the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
Diagnostic Radiologic Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d). Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R)?   As outlined in the VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G25. Copy of Certification required.
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) ) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)? Applicants must submit a copy of transcripts.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS 13 Experience/Education: One year of experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level.    Experience must demonstrate service as the chief radiologic technologist at medical facilities with comprehensive and complex radiographic and imaging programs. Employees in these assignments plan and direct the radiologic technology program at active, affiliated medical centers with critical care and emergent inpatient services and have full supervisory responsibility for a large staff of subordinate personnel, including GS-10 DRTs, at least one subordinate team leader or supervisor at the next lower grade level, and may include clerical or administrative support staff. At this level, the radiologic technology program typically includes the full variety of comprehensive and complex modalities. 

AND

Certification:. Individuals assigned as Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist - Imaging Program Administrator must be certified as stated in the above basic requirements.

AND

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs. -Knowledge of VISN or national initiatives and /or intra-agency workgroups or committees; ability to develop and /or recommend national policies and/or directives; ability to perform VHA Central Office Special projects and activities and managing resources at a complex facility or organization, [ i.e., space, equipment, supplies, personnel a regional or national level]; Ability to, provide the full range of supervisory Skill in administrative management (e.g., budgeting, contracting, procurement and property management) in accordance with VHA regulations; Ability to, provide the full range of supervisory duties which includes responsibility for assignment of work, performance evaluations, selection of staff, and recommendation of awards, advancements, and disciplinary actions; Skill in administrative management (e.g., budgeting, contracting, procurement and property management) in accordance with VHA regulations; Ability to work collaboratively with other disciplines, upper management, VISN level staff and/or VHA Central Office; Ability to plan and execute short and long-range programs and/or goals through project management and tactical/strategic planning as well as develop and oversee complex quality programs addressing outcome management and performance benchmarks; Knowledge of concepts, principles, and methodologies of a significantly high- level imaging program that includes complex subsections such as diagnostic radiology, nuclear medicine and/or radiation oncology operations in order to assess program effectiveness and provide authoritative guidance for operations, personnel, and management and Ability to develop, implement, maintain, and enforce departmental programs, policies, procedures and protocols to ensure and maintain required documentation for compliance with safety, environmental and infection control standards, and with Joint Commission, FDA, NRC- NHPP, ACR, HIPPA, and other federal regulations.


Do you meet the requirements as stated above for the GS 13 Level?
 Yes
 No


The following is a Certification of Understanding. Response to this statement is mandatory. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙