Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK)
Agency
U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
Announcement Number
DAKB-26-12924979-CES Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This is a DoD Cyber Excepted Service (CES) personnel system position in the Excepted Service under 10 USC 1599f. Appointment to this position does not confer competitive status. Prior to appointment applicants are required to sign a statement indicating they understand the conditions of employment or assignment to the position and acknowledge the consequences of failing to meet and maintain those required conditions. Are you willing to sign a Statement of Understanding and agree to the requirements of a CES position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Appointment to this position is subject to a three year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in DoDI 1400.25 V3005, Cyber Excepted Service, Employment and Placement. While serving a probationary period the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a three year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 5% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 5% of the time?
 Yes
 No


5.
Incumbent is required to obtain and/or maintain one or more of the following certifications: Common Faculty Development-Instructor (CFD-IC), Common Faculty Development-Developer (CFD-DC), Cadre Training (CTC), Support Cade Training (SCTC) as required, dependent on level of instruction (IET, PME, Functional). 
Instructors are required to successfully complete all requirements to obtain the Career Program - 34 Information Technology Management (Occupational Series 2210) which encompasses six publishing and printing, and libraries within 90 days of employment. Are you willing to adhere to this condition of employment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK) GG 2210-11 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes directly applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience may have been acquired in any public or private sector job but will clearly demonstrate experience in the application of the competencies or knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of the position. Such experience is typically in or directly related to the work of the position to be filled.
 I have at least 1 year of applicable experience that demonstrates the possession of knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies necessary for immediate success in the position. Qualifying experience would be demonstrated by 1) Deploying enterprise networking and services technology, based on network, data service and C2 systems integration 2. Executing Program of Instruction to ensure the development of Information Technology training material; 3. Adjusting presentation or other instructional methods to resolve classroom problems; 4. Preparing operating policies and procedures for network, system operation, and product installation; and 5. Advising for technical and operational expertise on all aspects of automation within the command. My specialized experience includes, or was supplemented by, information technology related experience (paid or unpaid experience and/or completion of specific, intensive training, as appropriate) which demonstrates each of the four competencies, as defined: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: completing work independently that rarely requires editing or review by others; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: resolving simple and routine problems, questions, or complaints and providing support and guidance to customers on non-routine issues; serving as a primary resource for customers, requesting assistance with complex issues when necessary; and participating in meetings and providing advice to customers in own area of expertise; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: expressing facts and ideas in a clear, concise, convincing, and organized manner; clearly conveying moderately complex ideas, concepts, and information to customers; exhibiting active listening by demonstrating understanding of audience comments and/or questions; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations. Examples of IT-related experience demonstrating this competency include: identifying and solving problems by gathering and applying information from a variety of materials or sources that provide several alternatives; recognizing and taking action to address non-routine problems; soliciting feedback from multiple stakeholders to understand an issue or problem and accurately assess its root causes and potential solutions; seeking supervisory review where appropriate.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree from an accredited or pre-accredited institution in computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management; or, three full years of graduate education from an accredited or pre-accredited institution that provided a minimum of 24 semester hours in one or more of the fields identified above and required the development or adaptation of applications, systems, or networks. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙