Position Title
FFSP Clinical Counselor/FAP Case Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13032493 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Sep 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Interdisciplinary (Family Advocacy Program Case Manager) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



1.
Basic Requirements: 0101
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.

 I have a four (4) year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have four (4) years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not possess any of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirements: 0180
Do you have a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.


 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least four (4) years of specialized experience working in the field of child abuse, domestic abuse and/or family violence?

 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires the incumbent to be Tier III qualified in accordance with SECNAVINST 1754.8. In order to meet this requirement, which one of the following degrees do you possess? Note: you must attach a copy of your related college transcripts in order to be considered for this position.

 Master’s degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master’s degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 Master’s degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school and a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not possess one of the degrees identified above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology AND 2 years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification? NOTE: A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


7.
How many years of experience do you have with program oversight to ensure policy implementation?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 - 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


8.
How many years of experience do you have analyzing program performance to identify gaps and recommend changes to procedures?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 – 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


9.
How many years of experience do you have with telehealth technologies and secure platforms to deliver services?
 I have 4+ years of experience as described above.
 I have 2 - 4 years of experience as described above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙