Position Title
Accountant
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13035999 DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain Financial Management Level 2 certification within 2 years of employment in accordance with the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) 2012, Public Law 112-81, Subtitle F-Financial Management, section 1051, amending 10 United States Code, section 1599d. I have, or am willing to obtain and maintain for the duration of my employment, the appropriate certification for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Accountant position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant GS-0510-07/09/11/12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in accounting, or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: (1) Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; OR (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; OR (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; AND (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; AND (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education or experience described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level to be qualified for this position at the GS-07 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience performing technical work that provided the basic understanding of concepts and principles of accounting such as organizing or reviewing financial data related to accounting problems.
 I have successfully completed one full year of related graduate education which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. One year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours the school attended has determined to represent one year of full-time study. If that number cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered one year of academic graduate study. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts for verification).
 I have attained superior academic achievement (S.A.A.) in a baccalaureate curriculum that is related and qualifying for this position. S.A.A. is based on (1) class standing, (2) grade point average, or (3) honor society membership. (1.) Class standing Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the Collage of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. (2.) Grade-point average (GPA) Applicants must have a grade-point average of: 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 (B or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. Grade-point averages are to be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 will round to 3.0 and 2.94 will round to 2.9. (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies. Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts for verification).
 I have some specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education but less than the one year of graduate level education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying specialized experience by 12 to get a percentage of experience. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18 to get a percentage of education. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts for verification).
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not described in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level to be qualified for this position at the GS-09 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience analyzing financial data in order to solve accounting problems using an automated financial system.
 I have successfully completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree, or completed two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a related field which demonstrates knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education at the graduate level, but less than the two years required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, when combining education and experience, first take the number of graduate-level semester credits (or equivalent) earned in excess of 18, and divide by 18 semester credits (or equivalent); then take the number of months of experience divided by 12 months; finally add the two percentages together. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level to be qualified for this position at the GS-11 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience providing financial accounting services in an automated financial system which included analyzing and interpreting accounting information and regulations, and applying generally accepted accounting principles to actual financial problems.
 I have successfully completed a three full years of related graduate education leading to a Ph. D. degree, or Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts for verification).
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have more than two years but less than the required graduate education as described in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate study beyond two years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Accountant at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes applying accounting principles, theories, and techniques to independently perform accounting work for operational programs or systems and to analyze and advise managers on accounting and financial matters; knowledge of the governing regulations and reporting requirements to monitor upward reports on Revolving Funds.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙