Position Title
Support Services Specialist (SSD)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
355-26-YG-12994057-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION CLARIFICATION - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees, and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a current, permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employee?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
Time-in-Grade - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this vacancy does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


3.
VBA Non-Competitive Consideration - Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?

 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


4.
What is your current grade?



5.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?



Selective Placement Factor - Driver's License - This position requires the routine operation of government vehicles. Therefore, possession of a valid, unrestricted state driver's license is required. Applicants must also be willing and able to operate government vehicles as a regular and essential duty of this position.


6.
Do you currently possess a valid, unrestricted driver's license issued by a U.S. state, territory, or the District of Columbia, and are you willing and able to operate government vehicles as a regular and essential duty of this position?
 Yes, I possess a valid, unrestricted driver's license and am willing and able to operate government vehicles as a regular and essential duty of this position.
 No, I do not possess a valid, unrestricted driver?s license and/or am not willing or able to operate government vehicles as required. I understand I will not be eligible for further consideration for this position.


Please provide the following information about your current driver's license (do not upload or provide your license number at this stage):


7.
Issuing State or Territory



8.
Expiration Date (MM/YYYY)



This section includes questions about your qualifications for this Support Services Specialist GS-0342 position. This job series has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR). Applicants must meet both the IOR and the position specific specialized experience.


9.
(IOR) From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR) for the Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11 position. In each instance choose one statement that best describes your experience and/or education. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Your responses will be subject to verification.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level (GS 09) in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: • Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures. • Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization. • Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc. • Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization. • Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree. Graduate Education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


10.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE (Position-Specific). From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the position-specific specialized experience for the Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11 position. Note: There is no educational substitution for the position-specific specialized experience.
 I have one (1) year of Specialized Experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-09). Specialized experience is defined as: (1) Experience developing and interpreting administrative policies and requirements and reviewing the work of other team members. (2) Experience assisting with any facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects; and analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs. (3) Experience with the renovation of existing office space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, and/or minor construction, etc. (4) Experience administering government regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, and/or security standards which can be gained through such activities as conducting safety and/or security inspections, assisting or monitoring a safety and/or security program, and/or identifying and/or resolving safety and/or security deficiencies. (5) Experience analyzing use of space and facilities, safety and/or security inspections, and/or minor construction budgets, etc. and advising management accordingly. (6) Experience in property management, inventory of supplies and/or equipment, procurement of supplies and/or equipment, and/or vehicle management, etc. (7) Experience in administration and management of an identity card program, to include, cardstock inventory management, card issuance, administrative oversight of role-holders, and issuing cards, as necessary.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


11.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙