Position Title
Education Liaison Representative (Education Approvals Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
307-26-NN-13061755-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Buffalo, NY
 E. Muskogee, OK


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
10
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of Veteran Affairs?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity.
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


2a.
What is your current grade?


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A or VRA).


3.
GS-10 Grade Level - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-10 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 Neither A, or B applies to me.


4.
GS-11 Grade Level - Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-10 position (or higher).
 Neither A, or B applies to me.


Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.


5.
To qualify at the GS-10 grade level, you must have one (1) year of experience at least equivalent to GS-09 level. Specialized Experience: Apply regulatory and policy knowledge to review, analyze, or make determinations on program requirements, including those associated with federal or state education or other benefit programs. Use established procedures to assess, evaluate, and monitor programs or operations for compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards, including oversight activities related to education or benefit programs administered at the federal or state level. Deliver training, present information, or facilitate learning using professional instructional methods such as presentations, workshops, demonstrations, or testing, including training related to education or benefit program regulations and requirements.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I have at least two and a half years (45 semester hours or 68 quarter hours) of progressively higher level graduate education leading to Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (such as an LL.M.)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and progressively higher-level graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year when combined. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two (2) years by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.]
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade level, you must have one one (1) year of experience equivalent to GS-10 or above level. Specialized Experience: Demonstrates experience independently assessing, evaluating, and monitoring programs for compliance with applicable federal laws regulations and policies; Identifying program deficiencies or areas of risk; And recommending or implementing corrective actions and process improvements. Demonstrates experience developing, coordinating, and delivering training and instruction using a variety of professional instructional methods, including presentations, workshops, curriculum development and delivery, assessments and testing; Interpreting and translating complex federal and state laws, regulations policies and requirements governing education or benefits programs into effective instructional content for diverse audiences.
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-10 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (You must provide transcripts); OR I have three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M, if related. (You must provide transcripts).
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 36. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.] This website is a nice example and explanation as well. https://www.usgs.gov/human-capital/basic-education-requirement-combining-education-and-experience
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙