Position Title
Unclassified Duties - Senior Advisor - Detail Opportunity
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-6050-26-RU-014(MP) Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Do you wish to be considered under Merit Promotion?
To be eligible under competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A current or former (reinstatement eligible) permanent Federal civilian employee under a competitive career or career-conditional appointment.

To claim eligibility under competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting current position information and competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1), AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
 Yes
 No


2.

Do you wish to be considered under Non-Competitive Merit Promotion?

To be eligible under non-competitive merit promotion, you must be:

A Current or former (reinstatement eligible) competitive, career/career-conditional Federal employee who has previously competed for, held, or currently holds, the full performance level of the position you are applying.

To claim eligibility under non-competitive merit promotion, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

A copy of your most recent or past SF-50 in order to verify your claim for non-competitive eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade competed for or held, then you MUST also submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
What attracted you to this position?
 Service as a Civil Servant
 Government Benefits
 Salary
 Work Schedule Flexibility
 Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 Job Stability
 Office Location
 Other


4.
If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below.


5.
Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently a federal employee of the Department of the Interior?

 Yes
 No


2.
This detail is non-reimbursable. Your home office will continue to pay your salary and certify your timecard while you are on detail. Can you confirm that your supervisor approves of your application to this detail and that you will be submitting a letter from your supervisor approving your application along with your 2-page resume, statement of interest, and latest SF-50?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙