Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
327-26-FF-12971768-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Knox, KY
 B. Louisville, KY
 C. New Orleans, LA
 D. Jackson, MS


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent Facility Employee's (Facility) of Fort Knox, KY, New Orleans, LA, Jackson, MS, and Louisville, KY, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Offices and Veterans Affairs (VA) T5 Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligible. NOTE: Please be advised, ONLY current Facility employees are eligible to apply ONLY to their current Facility location.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Fort Knox, KY, New Orleans, LA, Jackson, MS, or Louisville, KY VBA Regional Office?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE RESTRICTION: As a current/former Federal GS employee you must meet Time-In-Grade requirements. You must submit the required SF-50(s), as described in the job announcement under the Required Documents section, to show that you meet time-in-grade for this position. Time-In-Grade restrictions also apply for CTAP applicants.


2.
At the GS-9 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-7 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 grade level or higher.
 I do not have at least 52 weeks of time-in-grade at the GS-7 level or higher.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for the grade level of this vacancy.


3.
To qualify for this Program Specialist, GS-0301-9 position from the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how you meet the qualifications.
 Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-7). In addition to the skills for the GS-7 level, specialized experience at the GS 9 level must document experience in the following: a. Experience working with Vocational and Rehabilitation and Employment Chapter 31 and Chapter 36 programs; b. Experience working with contracting practices and procedures; c. Experience working with Veteran Readiness & Employment operations.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LLB. or J.D., if related.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however combined my experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification. To do so, first calculate the percentage of qualifying education you have as a percentage of the education required. Next, calculate the percentage of specialized experience you have as a percentage of the experience required. Then, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% for you to qualify for the position at the GS-09 grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at the GS-09 level.
 My experience and/or education is not described in statements A, B, or C above


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙