Position Title
Deputy Manager Artemis Program
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
HQ-26-ES-13000513 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you reinstatement eligible to the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

This means you were previously employed as a Career SES employee and you successfully completed a one-year probationary period.

In order to be considered for this eligibility, I understand that my SES Career status must be included in my resume.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a graduate of an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Senior Executive Service (SES) certified Candidate Development Program (CDP)?

This means you have a signed document stating you are a graduate of an OPM certified Candidate Development Program and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of OPM.

In order to be considered for this eligibility, I understand that my SES CDP certification and year must be included in my resume.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current member of the Senior Executive Service (SES)?

This means you are serving in a Career Reserved SES or a General SES position and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).

In order to be considered for this eligibility, I understand that my current SES status must be included in my resume.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


Federal Employee
1.
To be considered for this position, you must meet one of the following:

A) A current civil servant federal employee. This means you are occupying a civil service position at the time of application.
B) A reinstatement eligible to the SES. This means you were previously employed as a Career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee and you successfully completed a one-year SES probationary period. OR
C) A graduate of an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) SES certified Candidate Development Program. This means you have a signed document stating you are a graduate of an OPM certified Candidate Development Program and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of OPM.

Are you a current civil service federal employee, a reinstatement eligible to the SES, or a certified graduate of an OPM SES Candidate Development Program?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a CURRENT Federal Employee, please list your current pay plan, series and grade level/pay band. If you are not a current Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


3.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please list the HIGHEST pay plan, series, and grade level/pay band held. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


4.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please provide the DURATION of the highest grade held. For example, 01/10/19- Present or 09/08/19 to 06/30/20. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


Assessment 1
Instructions: 

Please ensure your answers are accurate and consistent with the information in your two (2)-page resume. NASA can only qualify you based on your responses. You may be rated ineligible if you do not meet the minimum qualification requirements of the position.


Education:

To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must have the required basic education from an accredited college or university.


1.
This position requires a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major study in engineering, physical science, mathematics, life sciences, computer science, or other field of science. Please select the response that best describes your basic education.
 I meet the basic education requirement.
 I do not meet the basic education requirement.


2.
Education completed outside of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or any territory or possession of the United States must be deemed equivalent to that gained in conventional/accredited U.S. education programs to be acceptable for Federal employment. Please select the response that best describes your education.
 I have a degree that was obtained by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 I have a foreign degree and the degree has been evaluated by a foreign credential evaluation service.
 I have a foreign degree but it has not been evaluated by a foreign credential evaluation service.
 None of the above.


Experience: 

To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must have the experience which demonstrates your skill and ability to perform the duties of the position described in the Announcement, as well as progressively responsible supervisory/leadership experience.  



3.
Do you have the experience described above?
 I have the required experience demonstrating my skill and ability to perform the duties of the position, including progressively responsible supervisory/leadership experience.
 I do not meet or have the required experience.


Resume-Based Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs):

As a basic requirement for entry into the Senior Executive Service (SES), you must clearly articulate and describe within your two (2)-page resume evidence of progressively responsible supervisory, managerial, or professional experience which involved management of a program or organization of significant scope and complexity, normally obtained over several years by serving in positions at the GS-15 level or equivalent.
 

Your resume must provide information regarding your professional experience and accomplishments that demonstrate your ability to perform the duties of this position and meet the five Executive Core Qualifications (ECQs).
 

Failure to address these qualifications in your resume may remove you from consideration.



4.
Will your two (2)-page resume address the ECQs?
 Yes, my resume will address each of the ECQs.
 No, my resume will not address each of the ECQs and I will be rated ineligible.
 Not applicable, I am a current SES, SES reinstatement eligible, or SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) certified graduate with noncompetitive eligibility.


Mandatory Technical Qualification (MTQ):

To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must clearly articulate and describe within your two (2)-page resume demonstrated evidence that you meet the MTQ. 

Failure to address this qualification in your two (2)-page resume will eliminate you from consideration.


5.
Will your two (2)-page resume address the MTQ?
 Yes, my resume will address the MTQ.
 No, my resume will not address the MTQ and I will be rated ineligible.


Verification of Responses:

Please verify the accuracy of your responses and your interest in being considered for this position.



6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and that all responses to assessment questions and application materials are entirely my own work. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.

 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙