Position Title
Staff Psychologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-13069877-26-JAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


3.
Please provide three professional supervisory references who will be contacted upon selection.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Staff Psychologist position at the Martinsburg West Virginia VA Medical Center. Please review each question carefully. We request that you answer all items accurately and thoroughly, reflecting your specific education, training, and professional experience.

VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT): VHA HPTs pending the completion of education or certification/licensure requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. NOTE: This applies to current/past/upcoming VHA HPTs only. An HPT is an individual appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experiences to satisfy program or degree requirements or receiving VA Health Professional Scholarship Program. HPTs can be either VA-paid or Without Compensation (WOC).

Grandfathering Provision: All persons employed in VHA as a psychologist on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education (i.e., degree and internship requirements) and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
1. Employees grandfathered under this provision for this revision may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation, but may not be promoted beyond the journey level or placed in supervisory or managerial positions or beyond the assignment currently held for those being grandfathered to assignments above FPL. 
2. Psychologists who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
3. Psychologists initially grandfathered into this occupation who subsequently obtain additional education and/or licensure that meet all of the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required credentials as a condition of employment in the occupation.
NOTE: If psychologists who are grandfathered under this provision leave the occupation, the 5 employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


1.
English Language Proficiency: Psychologists must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3j.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes I meet this requirement.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


2.
Education Requirement: You must meet one of the education requirements listed below.
A. Have a doctoral degree in psychology from a graduate program in psychology accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA), the Psychological Clinical Science Accreditation System (PCSAS), or the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) at the time the program was completed. The specialty area of the degree must be consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. OR,
B. Have a doctoral degree in any area of psychology and, in addition, successfully completed a re-specialization program meeting both of the following conditions:
1. The re-specialization program must be completed in an APA or a CPA accredited doctoral program; AND,
2. The specialty in which you were retrained is consistent with the assignment you are am applying for. NOTE: The applicant must provide an official transcript and/or certificate documenting the completion of the re-specialization program, which includes completion of an APA or CPA internship. [Psychologists who have successfully completed a re-specialization program as described above and who were employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs prior to the implementation of this standard are considered to have fully met the educational requirements of these qualification standards. OR,
C. Have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally-accredited institution, with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature.

Do you meet the education requirement as described above?
 Yes I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I have received an advanced degree from an accredited program; or I am on track to complete an advanced degree from an accredited program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


3.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your Doctoral Degree in Psychology.


3a.

Provide the following information regarding your Psychology education:

Name of Academic Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education: 
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date): 
Area of Specialty: 


4.

Internship Requirement: In addition to completing your education components, you must fulfill the internship requirements to qualify.

A. You must have successfully completed a professional psychology internship training program that was accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed and that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed; OR,
B. New VHA psychology internship programs that are in the process of applying for APA accreditation are acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement, provided that such programs were sanctioned by the VHA Central Office Program Director for Psychology and the VHA Office of Academic Affiliations at the time that the individual was an intern; OR,
C. VHA facilities that offered full-time, one-year pre-doctoral internships prior to PL 96-151 (pre-1979) are considered to be acceptable in fulfillment of the internship requirement; OR,
D. Applicants who completed an internship that was not accredited by APA or CPA at the time the program was completed may be considered eligible for hire only if they are currently board certified by the American Board of Professional Psychology in a specialty area that is consistent with the assignment for which the applicant is to be employed. (NOTE: Once board certified, the employee is required to maintain board certification); OR, 
E. Applicants who have a doctoral degree awarded between 1951 and 1978 from a regionally-accredited institution with a dissertation primarily psychological in nature may fulfill this internship requirement by having the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience in a site specifically acceptable to the candidate's doctoral program. If the internship experience is not noted on the applicant's official transcript, the applicant must provide a statement from the doctoral program verifying that the equivalent of a one-year supervised internship experience was completed in a site acceptable to the doctoral program.

NOTE: Psychologists who meet the requirements of this revision and who were employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs prior to the implementation of this standard are considered to have fully met the requirements of this qualification standard.

Do you meet one of the internship requirements as described above?

 Yes I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


5.
Provide the following information regarding your Internship Training Program.


5a.

Please provide:

Name of  facility where completed:
City and State: 
Entrance date: 
Completion date:


6.
Licensure: 
Candidates must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
Exception:  At the GS-11 and GS-12 levels non-licensed applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements may be given a temporary appointment as a "graduate psychologist" for a period not to exceed two years from the date of employment on the condition that such a psychologist provide care only under the supervision of a psychologist who is licensed. Failure to obtain licensure during that period is justification for termination of the temporary appointment.
Do you meet the licensure requirement and/or understand the conditions if you are not license yet as described above?
 Yes I meet this requirement.
 I am a non-licensed applicant (license expected within 2 years) or , I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate. Who otherwise meets the eligibility requirements.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


7.
Provide the following information regarding your full current and unrestricted Licensure, State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.


7a.

Please provide the following information regarding your Psychology license or indicate if you are a non-licensed applicant who otherwise meets the eligibility requirements:

State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia license held:
Complete license number:
Expiration date: 


8.
Staff Psychologist, GS-11 (Entry Level):
None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the Basic Requirements (Education, Internship, Licensure,) as listed above?
 Yes I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


9.
Staff Psychologist, GS-12 (Developmental Level):
A. Experience: In addition to meeting all the basic requirements listed above you must have at least one full year of experience as a professional psychologist at the GS-11 level. Examples of qualifying experience include: 
Diagnosing mental disorders, conducting psychological or neuropsychological assessments, treating mental disorders through a variety of 6 modalities, provide adjunctive interventions for treatment of medical disorders, and may conduct research. 
AND,
B. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA's): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: 
1. Knowledge of and ability to apply a wide range of professional psychological treatments or assessment methods to a variety of patient populations.
2. Ability to design and implement effective treatment strategies.
3. Ability to incorporate new clinical procedures.
4. Ability to conduct research activities, such as designing and implementing clinical research projects (staff psychologists with specified research job duties).
5. Ability to perform basic research tasks of scholarship and research execution within the context of an established research team, including research participant relations, research documentation, data acquisition, maintenance, and collaboration.

Do you meet the GS-12 experience and KSA's as described above?
 Yes I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


10.
Staff Psychologist, GS-13 (Full Performance, Level): At this level, psychologists are licensed to practice independently in the provision of psychological services, consulting with peers and supervisors as appropriate.
A. Experience: At least two years of experience as a professional psychologist, with at least one year equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. Examples of qualifying experience include: 
Diagnosing mental disorders, conducting psychological or neuropsychological assessments, treating mental disorders through a variety of modalities, provide adjunctive interventions for treatment of medical disorders, and may conduct research. 
 
B. Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
1. Knowledge of, and ability to apply, professional psychological treatments to the full range of patient populations.
2. Ability to provide professional advice and consultation in areas related to professional psychology and behavioral health.
3. Knowledge of clinical research literature.
Do you meet the post-doctoral experience requirements as described above?
 Yes I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate.
 No I do not meet this requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙