Position Title
Director Customer Engagement
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-PH-26-12940672-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


7.
Please provide your preferred DCMA approved location(s) you are interested in working (DCMA Location List), not all locations may be available.
**This is not a remote work position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Director Customer Engagement position with the Defense Contract Management Agency. This is a Supervisory position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-03 or GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience with providing direction, maintaining ethical standards, and leading teams in executing complex contract management and operational responsibilities in a high-accountability Department of War (DoW) environment.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the NH-03 or GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Representing the organization’s value for the Acquisition Enterprise during senior customer engagements and forums, Preparing executive leadership for industry engagements such as councils, steering groups, industry meetings, and forums, Collecting, analyzing, synthesizing, and disseminating relevant customer and industry data, information, and intelligence to internal and external customers, Influencing strategic level mission and policy decisions that impact acquisition execution.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


3.
How do you most effectively motivate a team facing competing priorities and high workload?
 Set clear priorities, explain mission impact, and provide support/resources.
 Escalate all issues to senior leadership.
 Allow the team to self-manage without direction.
 Tell the team to push through without additional guidance.


4.
Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?
 Maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 Providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 Coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 Not communicating with appropriate executives and partners to ensure policy and procedures are communicated
 Assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts a criterion.


5.
Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial.
 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I do not adapt my communication style to the audience, nor do I maintain positive relationships with external stakeholders. I only communicate with internal stakeholders.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.


6.
How should a supervisor align team performance objectives with evolving agency priorities?

 Maintain prior goals to ensure stability.
 Adjust goals informally without documentation.
 Communicate revised priorities, update performance plans, and monitor progress.
 Wait for annual appraisal cycle.


7.
A team member repeatedly misses deadlines. What is the appropriate next step?

 Wait until formal discipline is required.
 Reassign all work permanently without addressing the cause.
 Ignore the issue and hope performance improves.
 Conduct a documented performance discussion with clear expectations.


8.
A project is behind schedule. What demonstrates accountability?

 Provide leadership an accurate status and recovery plan.
 Assign blame externally.
 Direct overtime without explanation.
 Delay reporting to leadership until impacts become unavoidable.


9.
How should supervisors ensure accountability for critical work?

 Assume experienced staff will self-manage without oversight.
 Rely primarily on verbal confirmation.
 Establish clear ownership, implement review processes and verify completion.
 Only review after problems occur.


10.
When managing limited resources across competing mission requirements, what is the most appropriate supervisory action?

 Distribute resources evenly regardless of priority.
 Prioritize based on mission risk and documented objectives.
 Defer decisions to higher headquarters.
 Address issues only when shortages occur.


11.
A major deliverable from your team was submitted late. Leadership asks what happened. What is the best response?

 Blame the team and state that the delay was outside your control.
 Acknowledge your role, describe immediate corrective steps, and provide context.
 Explain the factors that caused the delay and identify who was responsible.
 Take full ownership as the supervisor, present root-cause findings, outline corrective actions, and describe how you will prevent recurrence.


12.
Your team must adopt a new technology, but several employees lack the necessary skills. How do you proceed?

 Share online resources and hope they review them.
 Conduct a skills assessment, create a structured training plan, provide hands-on practice, track progress, and adjust support as needed.
 Provide hands-on practice opportunities and monitor progress.
 Expect them to learn it on their own time.
 Arrange training sessions and encourage participation.


13.
What is the most appropriate way to support the development, growth and fairness of individual team members and subordinates?

 Keep them in the same role to maintain stability.
 Limit additional responsibility.
 Use them only to train others.
 Provide equitable access to development opportunities based on documented performance, competencies, and organizational needs.


14.
What best promotes continuous development in the workforce?

 Focus only on immediate operational tasks.
 Leave development optional.
 Provide structured learning and time to apply new skills.
 Discourage experimentation.


15.
A recurring problem persists. What should the supervisor do?

 Continue applying short term fixes to keep operations moving.
 Escalate the issue or reassign ownership without analysis.
 Address only the immediate incident and move on.
 Conduct a structured root-cause analysis and implement preventive actions.


16.
You must make a decision with limited information. What is the best approach?

 Use the best available data, evaluate risks, and choose the safest viable option while remaining ready to adjust.
 Make a decision primarily based on past experience or intuition.
 Seek consensus and delay the decision until more certainty is available.
 Postpone the decision until all information is available.


17.
Your team struggles to solve issues independently and frequently escalates minor problems. What is the most effective problem-solving method that you should use?
 Build a problem-solving development program, provide coaching, create practice scenarios, reinforce critical thinking, and empower the team to resolve issues independently.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.
 Handle all problems yourself to ensure they're done correctly.
 Encourage the team to try harder before escalating.
 Provide troubleshooting guides and reference materials.


18.
A policy change creates operational ambiguity for your team. What is the most effective response?

 Continue current practice until directed otherwise.
 Seek clarification, assess operational impact, and provide interim guidance.
 Pause operations.
 Let each team member interpret independently


19.
After a major conflict is resolved, what actions help rebuild long term trust and team cohesion?

 Reinforce shared goals and team identity.
 Conduct follow up check ins to ensure issues remain resolved.
 Avoid discussing the conflict again to prevent reopening wounds.
 Recognize positive collaboration behaviors as they emerge.


20.
How should supervisors manage technical disagreements?

 Minimize communication to avoid friction.
 Encourage open discussion and define escalation paths.
 Avoid direct involvement unless the issue escalates.
 Let the loudest voice decide


21.
If two employees are upset because they believe workload assignments are unfair. What would your response be to these employees?

 Meet with both employees, discuss workload criteria, and adjust assignments transparently.
 Review workload data, involve employees in discussing expectations, adjust assignments, and implement a clear, equitable workload distribution process.
 Tell them, that is just how it is and move on.
 Explain that you’ll try to balance things better next time.


22.
Two high-performing employees have ongoing interpersonal tension affecting productivity. What is the most appropriate supervisory response?

 Separate assignments permanently.
 Address concerns individually and facilitates a mediated discussion.
 Ignore because performance is still acceptable.
 Issue a general reminder about professionalism.


23.
Develop/Empower Team (Choose the best answer) How do you develop and empower a team to address complex, multi-functional organizational problems autonomously?
 I foster a culture where employees are authorized and equipped to seek out, design, and pursue opportunities for self-development and lead cross-functional problem-solving efforts.
 I assign ownership of processes and products to subordinates, guiding and coaching them to integrate the efforts of multiple teams or specialized groups toward a common mission goal.
 I ensure all staff are treated equitably and utilized appropriately by aligning their specific skills with current needs, which supports their development and retention.
 I identify necessary training and professional opportunities for staff, ensuring they have the basic tools and knowledge to efficiently perform their current assignments.


24.
Inspiring/Guiding (Choose the correct answer) Which of the following actions best demonstrates a leader's role in inspiring and guiding a team toward goal accomplishment?
 Developing specialized technical analyses for complex phenomena.
 Participating in selection processes for new projects or contractors.
 Defining, establishing, and directing organizational focus on challenging and highly complex projects/programs.
 Collecting specific technical information and conducting detailed studies.


25.
Development/Growth (Choose the correct answer)  Which leadership action directly supports the development and growth of individual team members and subordinates?
 Ensuring a cooperative teamwork environment across the organization.
 Fostering the development of others by providing guidance or sharing expertise and directing assignments to encourage employee development and cross-functional growth.
 Resolving diverse viewpoints and controversial issues among stakeholders.
 Optimizing, controlling, and managing all resources across projects/programs.


26.
Professionalism (Choose the correct answer) How can a leader effectively model high standards of professionalism, trust, and integrity within an organization?
 By managing the performance of a large number of personnel.
 By continuously defining and redefining broad-scope program objectives.
 By ensuring a cooperative teamwork environment and leading/guiding the workforce in achieving organizational goals.
 By formulating organizational strategies, tactics, and budget/action plans.


27.
Influencing Senior Stakeholders (Choose the best answer) Describe your approach to influencing senior external stakeholders, such as executives from other Military Services or Government Agencies, when viewpoints are controversial.
 I assess the political and organizational reality to anticipate conflicts and proactively implement strategies to resolve diverse viewpoints and controversial issues that affect mission-critical programs.
 I adapt my communication style to provide technical guidance to executives, maintaining credibility as a functional authority to ensure my advice translates into effective decisions.
 I participate in high-level teams and management conferences, presenting organizational briefings to clearly convey the group's mission and strategic vision to stakeholders.
 I maintain consistent liaison with government and private industry executives to build strong professional relationships and foster open lines of communication.


28.
Conflict Resolution (Choose the best answer) How does a director effectively resolve significant conflict between two functional teams to ensure commitment to shared organizational goals?
 I encourage creative tension and facilitate cooperation to manage and resolve the conflict in a constructive manner, ensuring all parties are committed to the shared organizational goals.
 I analyze the priorities of both teams against the broader strategic objectives and make a sound, well-informed decision that minimizes negative impact on the overall organizational mission.
 I communicate expectations that all team members model high standards of honesty, integrity, and respect during the dispute resolution process, holding them accountable for their behavior.
 I consult with the team leaders to clarify the source of the disagreement and negotiate a temporary agreement on resource distribution to allow work to continue.


29.
Integration/Implementation (Choose the correct answer) In what way does a leader ensure the successful integration and implementation of strategic direction across the organization for vital program portfolios?
 By initiating necessary actions to resolve major organizational issues and complex internal disputes.
 By preparing, reviewing, and approving major reports or policies for internal and external distribution.
 By evaluating and analyzing the capability of a specific program or program portfolio to meet current customer demands.
 By defining, integrating, and implementing strategic direction for vital programs with long-term impact and strategic plans across organizational components.


30.
Communication (Choose the best answer) - Which of the following can be considered strategic communications?
 Establishing a unified messaging plan for all employees to ensure consistent communication with external partners during a major policy change.
 Engaging with the customer early in the acquisition process to communicate DCMA’s value proposition.
 Briefing internal commands on the Customer Engagement Group mission and services to market team resources.
 Emailing the summarized departmental meeting minutes to all staff.


31.
External Outreach (Choose the best answer) - Select the most appropriate procedure for conducting external outreach at the strategic, operational, and tactical levels to understand customer requirements, changing priorities, and workloads.
 Present and outline of DCMA's core services and their direct benefit to the warfighter and acquisition community.
 Conduct regular briefings to share on-the-ground insights from DCMA's program portfolio.
 Conduct recurring engagements with key customer stakeholders, using open-ended questions to tailor the conversation to their specific needs.
 Be readily available and prepared to assist customers whenever they reach out with problems or requests.


32.
Conflict Management (Chose the best answer) - What is the best response for resolving contentious issues that develop requiring intervention with and between senior customer officials?
 Allow the conflicting parties to resolve the issue autonomously.
 Wait for the customer to follow up with a specific time and date for the meeting before taking any action.
 Address the specific, observable behaviors with each customer privately.
 Arrange a confidential meeting for senior officials to voice concerns candidly, fostering a collaborative dialogue focused on reaching a mutual agreement.


33.
External Outreach (Choose the best answer) - Select the most appropriate procedure for conducting external outreach at the strategic, operational, and tactical levels to understand customer requirements, changing priorities, and workloads.
 Present and outline of DCMA's core services and their direct benefit to the warfighter and acquisition community.
 Conduct regular briefings to share on-the-ground insights from DCMA's program portfolio.
 Conduct recurring engagements with key customer stakeholders, using open-ended questions to tailor the conversation to their specific needs.
 Be readily available and prepared to assist customers whenever they reach out with problems or requests.


34.
Conflict Management (Chose the best answer) - What is the best response for resolving contentious issues that develop requiring intervention with and between senior customer officials?
 Allow the conflicting parties to resolve the issue autonomously.
 Wait for the customer to follow up with a specific time and date for the meeting before taking any action.
 Address the specific, observable behaviors with each customer privately.
 Arrange a confidential meeting for senior officials to voice concerns candidly, fostering a collaborative dialogue focused on reaching a mutual agreement.


35.
Strategic Direction (Choose the best answer) Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?
 Maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 Providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 Coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 Assessing and providing strategic directions for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts and criteria.


36.
Strategic Direction (Choose the best answer) Which activity best demonstrates a leader's ability to provide strategic direction and resolve complex organizational challenges?
 Maintaining liaison with external executives and partners to ensure communication on policy and procedural changes.
 Providing technical program support, reviews, and detailed analyses throughout a project lifecycle.
 Coordinating resources and methodologies necessary to conduct detailed sector assessments for management review.
 Assessing and providing strategic direction for mission-critical problems, working with senior management to establish new fundamental concepts and criteria


37.
What is the purpose of developing the Defense Acquisition Executive Summary (DAES) on Major Defense Acquisition Programs?
 Proactively identify and report operational issues stemming from manufacturing and sustainment.
 Provide early warning of potential program execution problems for technical or engineering related issues.
 Provides senior DoW leadership with situational awareness regarding program cost, schedule, and performance of DoW sustainment operations to best support field operations.
 Provides senior DoW leadership with situational awareness regarding program cost, schedule, and performance of ACAT 1 programs.


38.
Client Relationship & Advisory Role (Choose the correct answer) Which action best exemplifies the role of a Customer Liaison who is recognized as a trusted adviser, responsible for managing a complex client relationship and ensuring their long-term success?
 Leading an internal project team to ensure customer issues are resolved in a timely manner.
 Serving as the primary strategic contact for key clients, providing expert guidance on how to best utilize DCMA’s services to achieve goals.
 Briefing DCMA company information and services to new and existing customers.
 Servings as the primary strategic contact for the internal executive leadership team, prepping them for high-level engagements.


39.
Executive Leadership Preparation (Choose the best answer) - Select the best example of how to prepare an organization's executive leadership for industry and customer engagements.
 Provide a comprehensive list of historical customer complaints, operational discrepancies, and requests for information from the past year.
 Prepare an executive overview briefing of the program portfolio, focusing on strategic priorities and areas of concern.
 Author a wholistic report by collecting, analyzing, and synthesizing relevant customer and industry data.
 Provide relevant Program Assessment Reports from the requested customer portfolio.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙