Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12902071-26-DLe Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your qualifications for this position at the GS-9 grade level. (Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select.)
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the Federal service that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of an Administrative Officer position. Specialized experience includes: Creating reports, coordinating and scheduling meetings, and submitting requests/work orders using a personal computer and office automation programs (such as word processing, spreadsheets, etc.); accurately preparing timecards for submission and processing; managing and balancing financial aspects of general fund control points and purchase procedures; and performing various human resources/personnel management duties related to recruitment, disciplinary actions, and/or awards. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B. or J.D. in a field related to this position that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 None of the above.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Veteran's Preference Documentation Reminder - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Administration and Management competency (Knowledge of planning, coordination and execution of business functions, resource allocation, and production.).


1.
Task: Designs and implements policies and procedures to improve operations, increase efficiency, eliminate problems and support practices directly related to administrative management. When implementing a new administrative policy designed to improve N&FS operations and increase efficiency, the most critical step for the Administrative Officer is to:

 Hold a mandatory meeting with all staff to discuss potential policy revisions before any documentation is drafted.
 Draft the new policy and submit it to the Chief, N&FS, for approval and distribution.
 Implement the new procedures without documenting them, as long as staff are verbally instructed on the changes.
 Independently develop, issue, and implement the formal procedure, ensuring it complies with all relevant VA directives concerning administrative matters.


2.
Task: Updates various databases and shared computer drives and serves as the Records Control Officer (or similar) for a service or department. As the Records Control Officer for N&FS, a primary responsibility of the Administrative Officer is to ensure that the Service's records management practices:

 Delete all documents marked as "draft" from the shared drives at the end of each fiscal quarter to minimize storage space usage.
 Maintain all current documents necessary to meet the requirements of internal/external reviews and protect electronic files containing sensitive data from unauthorized release or loss.
 Secure and update the shared computer drives and databases daily to ensure all files are immediately accessible to every member of the N&FS staff.
 Coordinate annual off-site storage of all paper files that are older than five years, regardless of their retention schedule.


3.
Task: Assists with maintaining current documents necessary to meet external and/or internal review requirements. Which action best demonstrates the AO successfully maintaining current documentation to meet external review requirements?

 Making a decision to destroy any documentation that is more than three years old to reduce the volume of material review teams must look through.
 Delegating the responsibility of document maintenance to a junior staff member without any oversight or auditing.
 Ensuring all physical binders on the main administrative shelf are neatly labeled and stored alphabetically by policy number.
 Conducting a periodic review of all policies and procedures to verify they are properly organized, accurately reflect current operations, and meet the mandatory standards for external accrediting bodies.


4.
Task: Assists in preparing a department or organization for visits from external and internal review committees such as The Joint Commission, Office of Inspector General (OIG), Long Term Care Surveyors, Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF), etc. In preparation for a site visit by an external review committee like The Joint Commission (JC), the AO's most impactful preparatory action is to:

 Coordinate mock surveys and readiness reviews, gather required documentation, and ensure all N&FS staff are briefed and prepared to articulate compliance with accreditation standards.
 Only focus on ensuring the food storage areas are organized, as N&FS is a food service department.
 Inform the N&FS Chief that all necessary preparations are the sole responsibility of the Chief of Staff.
 Create a detailed schedule for the reviewers' visit, including travel and lunch arrangements.


The following statements pertain to the Contracting/Procurement competency (Knowledge of various types of contracts, techniques or requirements (for example, Federal Acquisitions Regulations) for contracting or procurement, and contract negotiation and administration).


5.
Task: Supports procurement and supply administration which may include preparing procurement requests, evaluating proposals for work, maintaining procurement reports and assisting management with control purchasing and use of supplies. When supporting the procurement function for N&FS, the most critical action to ensure management maintains control over purchasing and supplies is to:

 Approve all high-dollar procurement requests without consulting management, to expedite the process.
 Refuse to prepare procurement requests for items that are not typically used on a daily basis.
 Only focus on evaluating vendor proposals to ensure the lowest possible cost is selected for every purchase request.
 Maintain accurate procurement records and reports, and coordinate closely with the Food Production Manager to monitor, manage, and control the use of all purchased supplies.


6.
Task: Assists in the initiation and preparation of procurements to secure adequate resources to facilitate operations. To ensure the initiation and preparation of procurements successfully secures adequate resources to facilitate N&FS operations, the AO's primary focus should be on:

 Proactively working with N&FS staff to identify resource needs and preparing accurate, timely procurement requests that clearly justify the requirement and communicate the resource's importance to operations.
 Waiting until the last minute before a resource runs out to initiate a procurement, as this prevents overstocking.
 Directly calling vendors on a daily basis to see if any new products have been released.
 Reviewing the previous year's procurement log to only purchase the exact items and quantities that were bought 12 months ago.


7.
Task: Determines appropriate costs, performs costs analysis, and prepares sole source justifications. When the Administrative Officer is required to prepare a sole source justification for an item of equipment, the most essential element of the justification is to:

 Calculate the total lifecycle cost of the equipment, including maintenance and eventual disposal.
 State that a sole source is required simply because the Chief prefers a specific brand.
 Obtain a signature from the N&FS Chief agreeing to the purchase before any cost analysis has been completed.
 Document that only one responsible source can provide the item or service, and clearly articulate why no other product or source can meet the unique and essential needs of the program.


8.
Task: Assists in the preparation and review of purchase orders for supplies and non-expendable property, such as equipment. When reviewing a purchase order for a piece of non-expendable equipment for N&FS, the AO's most critical check is to ensure that:

 The purchase order accurately reflects the specifications of the requested item, the corresponding funds are available, and the expenditure is properly authorized and documented.
 The purchase order number is an even number, which is required for non-expendable property.
 The requested equipment is not on the inventory list, as all equipment must be purchased through a separate contract.
 The purchase order is printed on the official departmental letterhead and faxed directly to the vendor before being entered into the electronic system.


The following statements pertain to the Financial Management competency (Prepares, justifies, and/or administers the budget for program areas; plans, administers and monitors expenditures to ensure cost-effective support of programs and policies; assesses financial condition of an organization).


9.
Task: Monitors budget formulation, justification, execution, management and financial reporting. During the budget execution phase, the Administrative Officer's primary responsibility in monitoring is to:

 Direct and monitor the expenditure of approved funds, track the status and balances of control points and projects, and review financial reports to resolve any discrepancies with the accounting office.
 Personally approve all employee travel vouchers without requiring a manager's review.
 Request additional emergency funds from the VISN office any time a fund balance drops below 50%.
 Only focus on ensuring that no money is spent from the budget before the start of the new fiscal year.


10.
Task: Attends budget calls/meetings, reviews budget guidelines and instructions, and briefs managers of schedules and data requirements. After attending a budget call and reviewing the new annual budget guidelines, the Administrative Officer's most critical next step is to:

 File the guidelines away and wait for managers to individually ask for information about the new budget.
 Contact the Chief of Staff's office to argue against the new budget guidelines because they do not favor N&FS spending.
 Develop a clear presentation and brief N&FS managers on the budget formulation schedules, key data requirements, and any significant changes in the guidelines that impact their program submissions.
 Immediately prepare and submit the budget proposal for the next fiscal year without further input, based solely on the new guidelines and the previous year's submission.


11.
Task: Monitors fund balances and statuses of projects, and recommends reprogramming of funds as needed. If the Administrative Officer identifies that a specific N&FS project is projected to exceed its allocated fund balance before completion, the appropriate action is to:

 Notify the N&FS Chief of the deficit and simply request a supplemental appropriation from the hospital director.
 Recommend a transfer (reprogramming) of funds from an underutilized or lower-priority N&FS control point, and prepare the necessary justification to support the request.
 Immediately halt all non-essential spending on the project, even if it jeopardizes the project's completion.
 Temporarily use funds from an unrelated project's budget without formal authorization or documentation.


12.
Task: Manages budget formulation and execution for a changing budget of administrative expenses involving different funding sources. Managing budget formulation and execution for administrative expenses with different funding sources primarily requires the Administrative Officer to have the knowledge and skill to:

 Track and reconcile expenditures across multiple unique funding lines, ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements specific to each funding source, and accurately apply funds to authorized administrative expenses.
 Focus solely on purchasing major equipment, as this is the only expense that changes annually.
 Only use general purpose funds for all administrative expenses, even if specific restricted funds are available.
 Allow the Chief of N&FS to approve all purchases regardless of the funding source's specific purpose.


The following statements pertain to the Communications competency (Effectively expresses information to multiple audiences through clear, convincing oral and written communications; demonstrates logical thinking when describing facts and concepts, and shapes communications to meet the needs of a specific audience; actively listens to others and demonstrates understanding of their comments and/or questions.).


13.
Task: Participates in regular meetings, takes meeting minutes, or attends various council/committee meetings or workgroups on behalf of the Department/Service Chief. When attending a high-level committee meeting on behalf of the N&FS Chief, the AO's most important communication responsibility is to ensure that they:

 Use the meeting as an opportunity to share personal opinions on sensitive departmental conflicts.
 Provide a detailed summary of the meeting to the Chief, focusing only on personnel issues and ignoring all other administrative topics discussed.
 Take detailed notes on every single word spoken by every attendee to ensure the minutes are completely verbatim.
 Actively listen to the discussion, accurately record key decisions, action items, and rationale, and effectively represent the Chief's position and N&FS interests when required.


14.
Task: Distributes and controls mail, refers phone calls and visitors, and provides information which might require research, tact, and diplomacy. A high-level visitor from an external organization arrives unexpectedly and requests sensitive financial and personnel data for N&FS. The AO's action, demonstrating the required use of research, tact, and diplomacy, should be to:

 Tell the visitor to leave and that appointments must be scheduled three days in advance, without referring them to anyone.
 Immediately hand over all the requested confidential files in a show of hospitality.
 Courteously greet the visitor, politely explain that sensitive data requires proper authorization, research the appropriate release policy, and coordinate the request with the N&FS Chief and the corresponding internal office (e.g., HR, Finance).
 Immediately provide the visitor with a one-page summary of general N&FS policies to placate them and then refer the visitor to the Chief's office.


15.
Task: Prepares correspondence using correct grammar, spelling, punctuation, and established formats. When preparing a formal memorandum to an external VA facility regarding a complex administrative issue, the most critical step related to the quality of the written communication is to ensure that the correspondence:

 Uses acronyms and informal language freely since it is an internal VA communication.
 Uses correct grammar, spelling, and punctuation, adheres to the established VA/VHA formatting guidelines, and presents facts and concepts in a logical structure that is clear to the specific audience.
 Is reviewed and approved by three different managers before being distributed.
 Contains at least five paragraphs regardless of the amount of information needing to be conveyed.


16.
Task: Addresses administrative management issues, resolves problems and provides recommendations for correcting or improving processes and programs. The N&FS Chief asks the AO to investigate why the new employee onboarding process is consistently failing to meet the VHA's required 30-day timeline. To best address this issue and provide a recommendation, the AO should first:

 Look up similar processes in an entirely different, unrelated department, and recommend N&FS adopt that process exactly.
 Submit a complaint to the HR office, stating that it is the HR office's responsibility to fix the N&FS onboarding process.
 Immediately schedule a follow-up meeting with the Chief to ask for a larger staffing allocation for the administrative team.
 Analyze the current process steps, evaluate the bottlenecks and problem areas, and devise a data-driven solution or recommend an action plan to streamline procedures and increase efficiency.


The following statements pertain to the Managing Human Resources competency (Plans, distributes, coordinates, and monitors work assignment of others; evaluates work performance and provides feedback to others on their performance; ensures that staff are appropriately selected, utilized, and developed, and that they are treated in a fair and equitable manner.).


17.
Task: Prepares and submits requests for recruitment, promotion, reassignment, disciplinary actions etc. and keeps an audit trail for requested actions to ensure requested actions are accomplished in a timely manner. An N&FS manager submits a request for a promotion action. After preparing and submitting the required paperwork, the AO's next crucial step is to:

 Maintain a complete audit trail of the submitted personnel request and actively monitor its progress with the Human Resources office to ensure the action is accomplished accurately and in a timely manner.
 Tell the manager that once the form is submitted, it becomes the responsibility of the HR Office and the AO has no further role.
 Review the promotion request only for correct grammar and punctuation.
 Alert the N&FS Chief of the action and recommend the next course of action only if a significant problem arises.


18.
Task: Provides advice and assistance to managers and staff concerning agency personnel processes and procedures, to include keeping management advised on personnel allocations, vacant positions and status of recruitments. The Administrative Officer's most critical advisory role for N&FS managers concerning Human Resources is to:

 Approve all leave requests for administrative staff without consulting the direct supervisor.
 Create new position descriptions and performance standards without review or recommendation to management.
 Serve as the primary liaison with the HR office, providing expert advice on agency personnel processes, and proactively advising management on resource needs, personnel allocations, vacant positions, and the status of recruitments.
 Collect all completed timecards from staff and ensure they are submitted to the payroll office before the deadline.


19.
Task: Performs full range of human resource requirements, incentive awards program, organizational structure and serves as a liaison concerning personnel-related matters, processes and procedures. Which combination of duties represents the full range of Human Resources requirements managed by the Administrative Officer for N&FS?

 Overseeing all contract negotiations for the Bargaining Unit staff.
 Administering all personnel management actions, managing the incentive awards program, providing regulatory guidance on organizational structure, and acting as the liaison between N&FS staff and the HR office.
 Directly interviewing and selecting candidates for vacant positions on behalf of the N&FS Chief.
 Only managing the incentive awards program and coordinating the in-processing of new hires.


20.
Task: Reviews award recommendations for proper justification, accompanying documents, availability of funds and signatures. Upon receiving an award recommendation for an N&FS staff member, the Administrative Officer's primary responsibility is to conduct a review that confirms:

 The award recipient's performance appraisal score is 'Outstanding' and the award narrative is exactly 500 words long.
 The award narrative is written in a poetic style that will appeal to the Awards Committee.
 The recommendation includes the proper justification, all accompanying documents are present, the necessary signatures are obtained, and funds are available for the award.
 The AO should veto the award if they personally believe the employee does not deserve it.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙