Position Title
DEFENSE TRAVEL ADMINISTRATOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12979292-AR-26-161-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jul 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current On Board Federal Employee within the OHNG in tenure 0, 1, 2, or 3? (SF-50 required)
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess 1 year experience that has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


2.
Serves as the, Financial Defense Travel System Administrator (FDTSA) subject matter expert (SME), Defense Travel System (DTS) for the USPFO, and the state ARNG including its supported units. Responsible for authorizing and setting up the correct lines of accounting for payment of Government funds. Performs a variety of analytical, technical, and administrative work for substantive programs and support activities.


2a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


3.
Applies knowledge of various automated systems and their applications to accomplish the tasks of the position, to provide input to long-range plans for automation, to use automation in the accomplishing the work of the DTS, and to support the assurance that the requirements of automated systems (data standards, security, etc.) are met. Coordinates development of traveler profiles, organizational data, reporting, budgetary, and document flow procedures in DTS. Ensures system requirements and activities necessary to achieve the objectives are identified, met and resolved, including all technical, administrative and/or operational problems and conflicts.


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙