Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (Biomedical Info Systems)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13071534-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (Biomedical Info Systems) GS-1601 position located at the West Palm Beach VA Medical Center within VISN 8, the VA Sunshine Healthcare Network. Your resume and responses to the assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your qualifications for this role. Please ensure your answers accurately reflect your experience and education, as all information is subject to verification.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following questions pertain to the basic requirements for the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
CITIZENSHIP. Citizen of the United States. After a determination is made that it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens, necessary personnel may be appointed on a temporary basis under authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405 without regard to the citizenship requirements of 38 U.S.C. 7402 or any other law prohibiting the employment of or payment of compensation to a person who is not a citizen of the United States. Candidates must meet all other requirements for the grade and position concerned.

Are you a Citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency (BASIC REQUIREMENT): Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, Section A, paragraph 3j.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.

Experience and Education: Please select the option that best describes your education and experience:

 I have an Associate’s degree in Biomedical Electronics Technology, Biomedical Equipment Technology, Biomedical Engineering Technology, or a related technical field such as Electronic Technology or Information Technology AND I have two years of experience as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer, or Information Technology Specialist. (COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in Biomedical Engineering Technology or in a related field such as Electronics Engineering Technology (EET) or Information Technology. (COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have completed a military training program in biomedical equipment AND I have two years of experience as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist, Biomedical Equipment Technician, Field Service Engineer, Medical Equipment Repairer, or Information Technology Specialist. (COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 GRANDFATHERING PROVISION: I am a person employed in VHA as a Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist on the effective date of this qualification standard (February 7, 2018) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education that is part of the basic requirements of the occupation. (SUPPORTING SF-50 REQUIRED)
 I do not meet any of the above requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Determination GS-12: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, do you have at least one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-11 level, performing duties such as:
- providing advanced support for networked medical equipment and biomedical information systems;
- applying electronics, computer, and networking theory to maintain, integrate, and troubleshoot complex medical devices and systems;
- configuring and supporting network components including VLANs, IP addressing, subnetting, and network security;
- ensuring compliance with information security requirements, including virus protection, software patching, and cybersecurity policies;
- managing or supporting medical device servers, databases, HL7/DICOM interfaces, and connectivity between clinical systems?
 Yes
 No


5.

Grade Determination: Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs)Please select the option that best reflects your ability to demonstrate all required KSAs for this position:

- Current knowledge of antivirus tools, security patches, upgrades, and information security safeguards.
- Expert knowledge of electronics, computer, and networking theory with experience maintaining, interfacing, and troubleshooting networked medical equipment, including VLAN configuration, IP addressing, subnetting, and network security.
- Ability to utilize and maintain computer- and server-based medical equipment, medical record databases, and proprietary or generic software; along with experience using TCP/IP, HL7, networking, network security, and DICOM standards.
- Ability to interpret and apply network engineering principles and practices in situations where there is no precedent.
- Skill in distinguishing networking problems from non-networking problems and effectively collaborating with IT networking and operations staff to resolve issues.

 I demonstrate all of the following KSAs.
 I do not demonstrate all of the KSAs listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Certification of Understanding - Select the appropriate answer to the statement below. Failure to provide an answer will result in your not being considered for this position.I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731)
 Yes
 No


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙