Position Title
DRILL RIG OPERATOR HELPER
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERL-25-12830233-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 07, 2025 to Nov 21, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 95 % of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 95 % of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Drill Rig Operator position with the Mobile District - Corps of Engineers - Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your Reliability and Dependability as a WG-05 Drill Rig Operator Helper.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex operations, preforming drill rigs and attendant tools in order to set up drilling equipment, to include preforming preventative maintenance on various equipment. I have an ability to operate hand and power tools, including a chain saw. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of setting up drilling equipment. I am skilled in conducting maintenance of various equipment and utilizing, and operating power tools. I work on my own initiative under general supervision, subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common maintenance and setting up drilling equipment utilizing tools. I work under the normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the reliability and dependability to perform simple maintenance on small equipment. I can follow directions.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙