Position Title
Support Services Supervisor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
351-26-MJ-12989362-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, certifying your documented disability and eligibility under Schedule A.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open to current, permanent employees of the Muskogee, OK Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) in the Support Services Division and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible only.


1.
Are you a currently a permanent employee of the Muskogee, OK VBA Regional office in the Support Services Division?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent appointment SF-50 as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.  Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered you highest grade and step (e.g. Withing Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this job announcement.


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 or higher.
 I have one year in a GS-12 position (or higher)
 Neither A, or B applies to me.


INSTRUCTIONS: This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) that must be met in addition to the Time-in-Grade and regular Specialized Experience qualifications.


3.
One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:

Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures.

Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization.

Office management experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc.

Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization.

Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.

 I possess the experience listed above.
 My experience is not listed above.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for this vacancy.

Note:  You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in Federal Service.




4.
To qualify for the GS-13, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level or higher.  Specialized experience is defined as performed duties related to administrative functions which include planning, directing, and coordinating supportive services of an organization.   Additionally, applicants must show experience in two of the following areas to be considered minimally qualified:
experience overseeing maintenance of buildings, grounds, and/or equipment;
experience in facility projects such as renovation of existing space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, minor construction, etc.; 
experience in administering government regulations relating to environmental, health, safety, and/or security standards;
experience with procurement, contracting, and/or lease administration;
experience in one or more supportive services of an organization such as records management, property management, inventory of supplies and/or equipment, vehicle management, mail distribution, etc.;
providing advice to management officials based on analysis of space and facilities, safety and security inspections, minor construction budgets, etc.;
successful completion of a leadership program such as Emerging Leaders Program, Station Leadership Candidate Development, Leadership Enhancement and Development Program, etc. or any equivalent program if not completed through the VA;
experience in leading which would have been gained as a supervisor, team lead, coordinating several major work assignments, recognized as a de facto team leader by peers, project management, etc.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, at the GS-12 grade level or higher in Federal Service.
 My experience is not described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.



5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙