Position Title
Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
317-26-DD-13057125-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Jacksonville, FL
 B. Saint Petersburg, FL


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describes your experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


INSTRUCTION: This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)  or CTAP eligibles.


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy is opened ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employees and Veterans Affairs (VA) Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) eligibles. From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist GS-0101-9/11 grade levels.
 Yes, I am currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: An SF-50 that shows your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Time-in-grade requirements also apply for CTAP/ICTAP applicants. To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade step increase SF-50 (Not an award or general adjustment SF-50). Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility. See the required documents section for more information. Please select the appropriate response below for each grade level.


2.
GS-09: At this grade, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 Yes, I am a current Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employee or CTAP eligible that have at least one (1) year of time-in-grade at the at the GS-07 grade level or higher to qualify for the GS-09. SF 50s must be submitted to show proof of time-in grade. You can submit more than one SF50 to show proof of time-in-grade such as a within grade or a promotion.
 No, I have not held one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-07 or higher to qualify for the GS-09.


3.
GS-11: At this grade, applicants must have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 level or higher. Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 Yes, I am a current Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employee or CTAP eligible that have at least one (1) year of time-in-grade at the at the GS-09 grade level or higher to qualify for the GS-11. SF 50s must be submitted to show proof of time-in grade. You can submit more than one SF50 to show proof of time-in-grade such as a within grade or a promotion.
 No, I have not held one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-09 or higher to qualify for the GS-11.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


4.
All applicants must meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) and Specialized Experience as stated below, to qualify. Please make sure documents (i.e. resume, transcripts) include all your qualifying experience and education.

INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENTS (IOR):

EDUCATION: Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- vocational rehabilitation, vocational or educational counseling, or other fields related to the position.

OR

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: Examples of qualifying specialized experience include:
Work that required obtaining and applying occupational information for people with disabilities, knowledge of the interrelationships of the involved professional and specialist services, and skill in employing the methodology and techniques of counseling to motivate and encourage individuals served by the program. Experience that demonstrated knowledge of the vocational rehabilitation problems characteristic of the disabled, including familiarity with available resources and skill in identifying, evaluating, and making effective use of such resources to serve individuals with disabilities; or of the disadvantaged, including knowledge of adjustment problems of the educationally or culturally disadvantaged, familiarity with available adult education and training resources, and ability to recognize problem areas needing special attention. Experience in vocational guidance or teaching in a recognized vocational rehabilitation program or school, developmental or supervisory work in programs of vocational rehabilitation or training programs for the disadvantaged, or personnel or employment placement work that provided extensive knowledge of the training and adjustment requirements necessary to place persons having disabilities or social adjustment problems.

 I have successfully completed undergraduate or graduate education: Major study -- vocational rehabilitation, vocational or educational counseling, or other fields related to the position.
 I have met the specialized experience that is stated above in the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR).
 I do not have the education or specialized experience as described in either "A" or "B" above, therefore, I am not qualified for this position


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: In addition to the above Basic Requirement/IOR, applicants must also meet the Specialized Experience requirement. To qualify for the Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist GS-0101-9/11 grade levels.


5.
To qualify for the Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist GS-1715 -09 position, you must have at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent in scope and responsibility to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. From the description below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience.

Specialized experience is defined as knowledge or experience rehabilitation, counseling, disability, therapy, health, employment, wellness or human development theory and principles; experience in career development process and career development theory.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a master's or equivalent graduate degree (including LL.B. or J.D. if related) or I have completed two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree and which demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
To qualify for the Vocational Rehabilitation Specialist GS-1715 -11 position, you must have at least one year of specialized experience that is equivalent in scope and responsibility to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service. From the description below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience.

Specialized experience is defined as knowledge and experience rehabilitation, counseling, disability, therapy, health, employment, wellness or human development theory and principles; knowledge of rehabilitation counseling skills, techniques and resources needed to work with Veterans with multiple disabilities, homebound veterans, veterans with acute or chronic mental disabilities and those with problems adjusting to social and occupational requirements.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 or higher in the Federal Service.
 I have earned a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and graduate education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond two years by 36. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


7.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 No, I do not certify that the information I provided in this application questionnaire is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙