Position Title
Seasonal Administrative Support Assistant (OA)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13050071-DE-SRP-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The current position I am applying to is a temporary seasonal appointment with less than 1040 hours. I am willing to accept this type of position. I understand that responding "No" to the item below will result in my not being considered for this position.


1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a typing skill of at least 40 words per minute?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as residing in within the following counties of Florida: Collier, Lee, Hendry, Broward, Miami-Dade, or Monroe

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Minimum Qualification Requirements GS-06


1.
Please select the one response below that best describes your specialized experience for the Administrative Support Assistant (OA), GS-0303-06 position. Note: the resume that you submit for this announcement must fully support the answers for this question. If it does not, you will be found ineligible, or your score will be lowered. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet the minimum qualification, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors) that is directly related to the position to be filled. Examples of specialized experience include providing a variety of administrative support services to enable efficient operation of a business or program office, use automated budget and financial systems; prepare expenditure records and reports, monthly statements, status of funds, and resolve budget discrepancies reports. prepare travel arrangements and vouchers; input and verify time and attendance and leave balances through an automated timecard system; and use and maintain electronic data management systems; use computer software for data collection and maintain vital records. You must include hours worked per week in your resume.
 I do not meet or exceed the statement above.


INSTRUCTIONS: Typing Ability (Screen out)


2.
This position requires a typing proficiency of at least 40 words per minute. You must self-certify your ability to type 40 words per minute during the application process. Candidates that do not meet this requirement by close of this announcement will receive no further consideration for this position. From the statements below, please select the one statement that best matches your typing ability. (Screen out)
 I self-certify that I can type at least 40 words per minute.
 I self-certify that I cannot type at least 40 words per minute.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙