Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Community Rec)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12893301 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Marina Manager position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
What is your documented Administrative/Clerical experience.
 1 year or more of documented direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 1 year or more of documented direct experience outside an MWR/DOD program.
 6 months to 1 year documented experience.
 No documented experience.


2.
Irregular working hours may be required to include early shift, late shift, evenings, weekends and holidays when the need arises. Are you available to work all shifts including on weekends and holidays ?
 Yes
 No, therefore I understand I will no longer be considered for this position.


3.
Describe your documented experience with planning leisure travel packages.
 1 year or more of documented direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 1 year or more of documented experience outside MWR/DOD program.
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience.
 No documented experience


4.
Describe your documented experience with customer service and dealing with the public.

 1 year or more of documented direct experience within MWR or other government program.
 1 year or more of documented experience outside MWR/DOD program.
 6 months to 1 year of documented experience
 No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙