Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (General)
Agency
Treasury, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
Announcement Number
26-FinCEN-13049013-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Vienna, VA


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
When Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


7.
If you are currently employed by the U.S. Department of Treasury, please select your current bureau/agency below. If you are not a current Treasury employee, please select N/A.
 Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB)
 Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP)
 Bureau of the Fiscal Service (BFS)
 Departmental Offices (DO)
 Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
 Office of Inspector General (OIG)
 Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
 Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)
 U.S. Mint
 N/A


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-15: You must have one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service. The expectation for selection for the GS-15 will be at least the following: 12 months of pertinent legal experience at the GS-14 (or equivalent). 
For this position, specialized experience is described as experience at the GS-14 (or equivalent) in the following areas of responsibility:

- Anti-money laundering; countering the financing of terrorism; economic sanctions; illicit finance; administrative law; corporate or contract law; ethics; intelligence law; international law; national security law; civil or criminal litigation; general law; or matters of similar scope and complexity.

This experience may have been gained in either the public or private sector. One year of experience refers to full-time work; part-time work is considered on a prorated basis.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service? The expectation for selection for grade GS-15 will be at least the following: 12 months of pertinent legal experience at the GS-14 (e.g., in the private practice of law, practice in a government legal office, or a judicial clerkship).
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties). 


Applicants must:
     (1) be a graduate of an accredited law school with a LL.B., J.D. or equivalent; and 
     (2) be an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia; and
     (3) have at least 12 months of pertinent legal experience, which may include, for example, the private practice of law, practice in a government legal office, or a judicial clerkship.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you a graduate of an accredited law school with a LL.B., J.D., or an equivalent degree?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please indicate the degree you received as well as the name of the law school and the school's location (city, state/country) where you obtained your degree.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please indicate the State, Territory or District in which you are a member of the bar.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙