Position Title
Safety Engineer
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
HQ-26-IMP-13002421-BR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please carefully review and answer the questions below regarding your current status as a NASA employee.

To be considered for this vacancy announcement, you must:
meet one of the eligibilities below;
answer "yes" to one of the eligibility questions; and,
as part of your application, submit the required documents to support your claim.
You will typically submit a Notification of Personnel Action Standard Form 50 (SF-50), which can be found in your electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF). You will only be considered for claimed eligibilities that are supported by your submitted documents.

If you answer "no" to all of the eligibility questions, your application will be found ineligible for this position, as this means you have self-identified that you do not meet the requirements in the "This job is open to…" section of the vacancy announcement.

Please be advised that NASA HR Staff rely on applicants' careful consideration and responses to the questions. If you make a mistake in answering "no" to all of the questions or respond "yes" only to eligibilities that you do not have, NASA HR staff will not change the responses you submit as a part of your application.


1.
Are you a current NASA federal employee serving on a career or career conditional appointment, whose permanent grade and promotion potential are both lower than the grade of the promotion potential listed in the announcement?

If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment, you can review your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1)
To find your promotion potential, you can review your latest promotion, reassignment or appointment SF-50.

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position that meets the time in grade requirements for the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NASA federal employee serving on a career or career conditional appointment, whose permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, OR whose permanent promotion potential is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement?

If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment and/or if your permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, you can review your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1); AND
your permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement.
If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment and/or if your permanent promotion potential is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, you can review your most recent appointment of promotion SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1); AND
a remark in block 45 that states, "Full performance level of employee's position is (pay plan and grade)". The listed grade must match the promotion potential listed in the announcement.
If you answer yes to one of these questions, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position at the same or greater grade or promotion potential as the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current NASA federal employee on a term appointment under the NASA Flexibility Act of 2004 with current eligibility to convert to a permanent appointment?

If you are unsure if you are on an eligible term appointment, you can review your SF-50 that documents your term appointment. This SF-50 must reflect:
in block 5-B, Term Appt NTE, AND
in block 45, a remark that states "Employee has competed under an announcement offering the potential for conversion to permanent appointment under P.L. 108-201, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 9806."
If your term appointment SF-50 contains the remark above, you also must have completed at least two years of continuous service under a term appointment AND your performance rating must be at least fully successful.
If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both the SF-50 that documents your term appointment, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position that meets the time in grade requirements for the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current NASA federal employee on a current Schedule A appointment for individuals with disabilities?

If you are unsure if you are on a current Schedule A appointment for individuals with disabilities, you can review your SF-50 that documents your excepted appointment. This SF-50 must reflect:
in block 5-B, Exc Appt or Exc Appt NTE, AND
in block 5-C, WUM, WTA or WTB.
If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in your Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA?

If you are unsure if you are eligible, confirm the following:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
If you answer yes to this question you must submit the following:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent SF- 50 that includes your position title and grade.
For more information on qualifying conditions for CTAP you may go to: The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marshall Space Flight Ctr, Huntsville, AL
 B. Armstrong Flight Research Ctr, Edwards AFB, CA
 C. Ames Research Ctr, Moffett Field, CA
 D. NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC
 E. Kennedy Space Ctr, Kennedy Space Center, FL
 F. Goddard Space Flight Ctr, Greenbelt, MD
 G. NASA Shared Services, Bay Saint Louis, MS
 H. Stennis Space Ctr, Stennis Space Center, MS
 I. Glenn Research Ctr, Cleveland, OH
 J. Johnson Space Ctr, Houston, TX
 K. Langley Research Ctr, Hampton, VA


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirements for this position as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.

 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in engineering from a school of engineering that has at least one program accredited by ABET.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in engineering that included differential calculus, integral calculus, and courses more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry in five of the following areas of engineering science or physics: (1) statics and dynamics; (2) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (3) fluid mechanics and hydraulics; (4) thermodynamics; (5) electrical fields and circuits; (6) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (7) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of college courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that meet the requirements of an engineering program and include the courses as described in B above.
 I have completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field (e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, geology), and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 I have evidence I passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in a State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a current registration or licensure as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or Professional Engineer (PE) in a State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a professional registration or licensure as an Engineer through a State Board's eminence provision (e.g., grandfathering).
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-15 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that included: Managing occupational health and safety compliance programs for large scale corporate or industrial environments; Identifying and mitigating operational hazards and employee exposures for industrial, maintenance or construction type activities as part of a program, facility or task analysis; Performing inspections, evaluations, audits or studies of worker exposure to hazards in multi-employer workplace/worksite setting.
 I do not have the experience described above.


WRITTEN INTERVIEW INSTRUCTIONS:
This technical assessment consists of scenario-based questions that ask you to describe your technical experience in three (3) areas.

Response Requirements
For each question, give a specific, factual example from your actual work or education experience. Focus your response on the situation, your actions, and the outcome. Ensure your responses are clear and concise. Each response will be limited to 700 characters or less (including spaces).

Verification Requirements
For each response, you are required to identify a supervisor who can verify the experience you described. You will provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who is familiar with the specific situation in your response.

Assessment Evaluation
Your responses will be reviewed and the results of the evaluation will determine whether you advance to the next step in the hiring process, so ensure your responses accurately reflect your capabilities and most relevant experiences.

Assessment Integrity
When completing this assessment, use your own words and work independently. Do NOT use outside help or assistance from others, and do NOT consult artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Copilot, or similar platforms and applications. Your responses must reflect your own knowledge, experience, and writing.


3.
Written Interview Question 1: Provide an example where you led a safety engineering effort for a complex or hazardous mission, program, or system. How did you identify and evaluate hazard controls, what analytical methods or processes did you use to support your recommendations, and what type of safety surveillance was needed to maintain these controls?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


3a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


4.
Written Interview Question 2: Describe a situation where you led the development, implementation, or improvement of a workplace safety program or policy. How did you ensure compliance with applicable safety requirements, address identified hazards, and work with stakeholders to improve safety performance? What was the result?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


4a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


5.
Written Interview Question 3: Describe a situation where you identified and managed a significant risk that could have affected mission success, safety, or organizational objectives. How did you assess the risk, evaluate potential mitigation strategies, and communicate your recommendations to decision-makers? What was the outcome?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


5a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


Certification


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙