Position Title
Benefits Specialist
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-26-025-IMP-13055430 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in the agency hiring for this position?
If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE INSTRUCTIONS

Specialized experience is expertise that prepared you to do the work of the job for which you are applying.  It must be equal to at least the next lower grade level in this line of work.

We can only credit experience you clearly describe in your resume.  This experience can come from a federal, state, local, or private sector job, or military service.  Education or training alone does not count, you must show that you actually performed the duties described in each question below.

We prorate part-time and intermittent work based on a 2,087-hour full-time work year. For example, if you worked 20 hours a week (half-time) for one year, we credit you with six months of full-time experience. You must list the hours you worked per week for each job on your resume. If you don't list your hours, we cannot credit that period of experience.

You must meet all of the specialized experience statements below to qualify for this position.  If your resume does not support one or more statements, you will be found not qualified, even if you meet the other statements.  Review your resume before you answer the questions below.  Make sure it clearly shows the experience needed to support your answers.


1.
GS-13 Specialized Experience Self-Assessment Question

In order to be qualified for this position, candidates must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to or higher than the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:
 
Administering retirement benefits or retirement savings programs by interpreting policies, regulations, or plan provisions to resolve participant, customer, or stakeholder issues.
Evaluating the operational effectiveness of an assigned benefits program, service delivery function, or external service provider (including contractors and vendors) by analyzing performance data against established or self-developed performance measures, in order to identify deficiencies, determine root causes, and recommend corrective actions or program improvements to management.
Analyzing program, operational, or benefits-related issues to develop recommendations that improved service delivery, policy implementation, or program effectiveness.
Developing policies, procedures, guidance, reports, or recommendations to communicate program requirements and support organizational decision-making.

Select the response that best describes your experience:
 Yes, I possess at least one-year specialized experience equivalent to or higher than the GS-12 grade level described above.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙