Position Title
Dental Laboratory Technician
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12933808-26-BLM Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 10, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Please indicate Yes or No for the following question:


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-8: Please select the appropriate answer to the following statement regarding your level of experience and/or education to meet the minimum qualifications of this position.
 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: I possess one year of specialized experience that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the position. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-7 grade level in Federal service. Specialized experience includes: use of dental laboratory material such as impression materials, plasters, stones, hydrocolloids, waxes, metals, acrylics, porcelain, and similar materials; use of laboratory equipment such as hand tools, dental lathes, engines, and hand pieces, furnaces, casting machines, presses, flasks, and related equipment; use of precision instruments such as articulators, surveyors, and microanalyzers; construction of dental prosthetic appliances. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week. A full year of work is considered to be 35-40 hours of work per week.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: I possess one and a half years (1 1/2) of graduate level education with course work or an internship that is directly related to the work of this position. One year of full-time graduate education is the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent one year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours should be considered as satisfying the one year of full-time study requirement. This education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 COMBINATION OF EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: I possess equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (beyond the first year) and specialized experience, as described above, may be used to meet total experience requirements. The education portion must include courses directly related to the work of this position. NOTE: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week. A full year of work is considered to be 35-40 hours of work per week. Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I do not possess the experience or education as described.


VETERAN'S PREFERENCE DOCUMENTATION REMINDER - To receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Customer Service competency (Works and communicates with clients and customers (e.g., any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit provides, including individuals who work in your agency or in other agencies or organizations outside the Government) to satisfy their expectations. Committed to quality services.)


1.
Task: Maintains a courteous and cooperative relationship with patients, co workers and Supervisor.
A patient approaches you with questions about their prosthesis while you are in the middle of a detailed bench procedure. You should:

 Direct the patient to any available person without verifying who can assist.
 Politely acknowledge them, explain you will check on their case shortly, secure your current work safely, and provide an accurate update or direct them appropriately.
 Tell them they must wait because you cannot be interrupted.
 Ignore the interruption to maintain workflow.


2.
Task: Verbal interactions with staff and patients are consistently positive and professional.
A dentist expresses frustration regarding a shade discrepancy on a crown. Your most appropriate response is:

 Blame the dentist’s original prescription for the issue.
 Tell the dentist the mismatch is minor and unlikely to be noticed.
 Acknowledge the concern professionally, review shade selection steps, and coordinate corrective actions and timelines.
 Explain that shade problems happen frequently and are difficult to avoid.


3.
Task: Takes action to effectively solve problems before they have an adverse impact on the organization or other employees.
Impressions from the clinic consistently arrive late, creating bottlenecks. The most effective proactive step is to:

 Wait for the Supervisor to notice and address the issue.
 Stop accepting new cases until the clinic changes its process.
 Regularly work overtime to compensate for delays.
 Identify workflow delays, collaborate on a structured intake checklist and routing plan, and propose improved handoff scheduling.


The following statements pertain to the Self Management competency (Sets well-defined and realistic personal goals; displays a high level of initiative, effort, and commitment towards completing assignments in a timely manner; works with minimal supervision; is motivated to achieve; demonstrates responsible behavior.)


4.
Task: Completes all required documentation and files necessary forms for assigned laboratory cases.
To minimize downstream errors, the most important step at case intake is to:

 Color code urgent cases without completing the rest of the documentation.
 Verify identifiers, prescription details, shade, materials, due dates, lot numbers, and file all forms before starting work.
 Begin the case immediately and complete paperwork after finishing.
 Keep the prescription at your bench until later.


5.
Task: Presents suggestions for improvement or concerns in a positive cooperative manner.
You observe that the ceramic furnace calibration consistently drifts. You should:

 Document the drift with dates, recommend a calibration schedule, and discuss the issue constructively with your Supervisor and team.
 Tell coworkers informally but make no formal recommendation.
 Submit an anonymous note criticizing the current maintenance process.
 Disable the calibration feature entirely to prevent inconsistency.


6.
Task: Maintains an organized case volume.
To most effectively stay organized across cases, you should:

 Arrange cases based solely on the type of material used.
 Use a tracking board or digital system showing due dates, required steps, and case status, and review it routinely to reprioritize.
 Organize all cases according to intake date only.
 Work on the case physically closest to you.


7.
Task: Adheres to specified time frames for laboratory procedures as specified on the laboratory prescription.
A key alloy for a case is unexpectedly on backorder. Your best course of action is:

 Notify the dentist and Supervisor promptly, explain the delay, propose alternatives if appropriate, and update the projected timeline.
 Cancel the case because the prescribed material is unavailable.
 Use a similar alloy without notifying anyone.
 Hold the case and hope the alloy arrives quickly.


The following statements pertain to the Work Practices competency (Work Practices (includes keeping things neat, clean and in order).)


8.
Task: Adheres to standards set forth in the Dental Service Infection Control Policy as mandated by OSHA.
Upon receipt of an impression from the clinic, the correct infection control action is to:

 Wipe only the tray edges with alcohol pads.
 Rinse the impression under warm water only.
 Wear PPE, disinfect with approved agents compatible with the impression material, and document as required.
 Skip disinfection if the impression looks clean.


9.
Task: Maintains a clean, organized, and well supplied dental laboratory work area.
You notice slurry buildup at the model trimmer and abrasives running low mid shift. You should:

 Clean the area at the end of your shift.
 Sweep debris onto the floor temporarily to keep the bench clear.
 Pause to clean per SOP, refresh water, restock abrasives, and log supply usage.
 Continue working and leave cleaning to the next shift.


10.
Task: Adheres to computer security/privacy policy.
You are asked to send a screenshot containing patient identifiers via an unsecured app. You should:

 Crop part of the information but send the rest.
 Decline to share PHI through unsecured channels and use only approved secure communication systems with minimum necessary data.
 Send the screenshot quickly and delete it afterward.
 Post it in a group chat to get faster feedback.


The following statements pertain to the Technical Competencies competency (Understands and appropriately applies procedures, requirements, regulations, and policies related to specialized expertise; maintains credibility with others on technical matters.)


11.
Task: Pours primary and final dental impressions.
For an accurate final impression pour, the best method is to:

 Vacuum mix using the manufacturer’s ratio, pour from one point while vibrating gently, and allow full set time before separation.
 Hand mix the stone quickly to save time.
 Pour from multiple points at once to fill faster.
 Mix the stone thicker to reduce the chance of bubbles.


12.
Task: Mounts dental casts according to procedures detailed in the Dental Laboratory procedures and protocol policy.
The key step for correct cast articulation is to:

 Transfer maxillary orientation with a facebow (or provided records), verify centric relation/vertical dimension, and mount using the prescribed articulator.
 Mount the maxillary cast first and add the mandibular cast later without records.
 Estimate occlusion visually if a facebow is not available.
 Use any articulator because they perform similarly.


13.
Task: Establishes proper internal adaptation of castings without binding or damage to die.
To ensure proper internal adaptation, you should:

 Grind the internal surface uniformly to ensure full seating.
 Tap the casting onto the die to encourage seating.
 Use disclosing medium to identify internal high spots, relieve selectively, and recheck for accurate seating without die damage.
 Force the casting onto the die for improved retention.


14.
Task: Seals margins on die while maintaining original margin markings on die.
Proper margin management includes:

 Preserving the margin markings, applying die spacer except on the margin, and sealing with a material that does not obscure the line.
 Removing the margin markings for a cleaner working surface.
 Avoiding die sealing to prevent interference during cementation.
 Applying die spacer across the entire surface including the margin.


15.
Task: Establishes proper occlusion in both centric occlusion and eccentric movements as per dentist's prescription.
Before glazing, the most appropriate occlusal evaluation is to:

 Increase occlusal contacts to enhance bite force.
 Remove most occlusal contacts to simplify chairside adjustment.
 Confirm stable centric contacts, evaluate excursions per the prescription, adjust interferences carefully, and verify guidance.
 Check only centric occlusion and leave eccentric adjustments for the dentist.


16.
Task: Establishes acceptable aesthetics and color of dental ceramics.
To achieve accurate anterior aesthetics, you should:

 Use only one dentin shade to simplify the process.
 Follow the prescribed shade, apply proper layering and characterization, verify under neutral lighting with calibrated shade tabs, and adjust as needed.
 Choose a lighter shade because materials darken after firing.
 Use bright bench lighting to enhance color saturation.


17.
Task: Assesses absence of flash or roughness of internal finish lines of removable partial denture.
The correct inspection step before delivering an RPD framework is to:

 Lightly polish the entire intaglio surface without targeted inspection.
 Use magnification and an explorer to detect flash or roughness, remove selectively with proper tools, and maintain design integrity.
 Assume smoothness based on visual appearance alone.
 Remove all internal finish lines to ensure patient comfort.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙