Position Title
Paralegal Specialist (Recent Graduate) - Appellate Section
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-027-EXC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to Jun 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Recent Graduates Program
The recent graduate program is for those who have graduated, within the past two years, from a qualifying educational institution or certificate program. The recent graduate program offers career development with training and mentorship. You must apply within two years of getting your degree or certificate (veterans have up to six years to apply due to their military service obligation). 

For more information, review: USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources or Learn more about the recent graduate program...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response below that best describes your eligibility for the Recent Graduate program:

 I have completed a degree program from an accredited college, university, or certificate program ON or AFTER May 2024.
 I am a Veteran who was precluded from applying for a recent graduate position during the two-year eligibility period due to a military service obligation, and not more than 6 years have transpired since I completed the requirements for a diploma, degree, or certificate program.
 I expect to complete a degree program from an accredited college, university, or certificate program by the end of the current semester. I will submit proof of impending completion of education.
 I have completed a degree program from an accredited college, university, or certificate program BEFORE May 2024.
 None of the above


2.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that best describes your qualifications for the Paralegal Specialist, GS-7. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-5 Federal grade level providing litigation support in a legal environment. Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, using litigation software to identify documents potentially relevant to litigation cases or maintaining legal databases used to track the production and receipt of documents.
 I have a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement within a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled and based on (1) class standing (upper third), (2) grade point average (3.0 or higher), or (3) honor society membership. This education was obtained in or verified by a U.S. accredited college or university. I have one year of graduate education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to do the work.
 I have one full year of graduate level education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.
 I have a combination of graduate education and specialized experience, that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 None of the above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your experience and/or education meets the requirement for the Paralegal Specialist, GS-9

 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 Federal grade level or above providing litigation support in a legal environment, conducting research online, interpreting relevant information, and producing written products based on that research. This experience must also include using computer software applications to organize and manage information.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or LL.B or J.D. Such education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of a Paralegal Specialist.
 I have a combination of graduate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (Only graduate education in excess of the first full year may be used in this calculation).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙