Position Title
Emergency Management Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12924597-26-AL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


1.
Driver's License: A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License. (Do not upload license.)
Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?

 Yes
 No


2.
Please provide your driver's license number, state, and expiration date. NOTE: Do not include a copy of your license; if an interview is requested, you may be required to provide a copy of your driver's license.


Minimum Qualification Requirements: Select one response below that best describes your experience to meet the specific qualification requirements for the Emergency Management Specialist at the GS-12 grade level. Please refer to the Qualifications and Duties sections of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.


3.
Do you possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties in this position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled? To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service. Specialized experience is understanding a variety of emergency, contingency and operations plans, policies, and directives to provide assistance and applying basic data gathering methodologies to collect various types of information and of database entry programs and management; using of the Microsoft Office Suite software (Outlook, Word, Excel and PowerPoint). Note: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hour worked per week.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Emergency Management competency (Applies professional knowledge of emergency management principles; considers and takes into account all hazards, phases, stakeholders and impacts relative to disasters; anticipates future disasters and takes preventative and preparatory measures; uses sound risk management principles in assigning priorities and resources.).


1.
Task: Develops, implements, sustains, and maintains emergency management policies and guidance within the organization and community.
Which action is the most critical element of sustaining an emergency management policy within a VAMC?

 Developing, implementing, and maintaining policies and guidance in accordance with VHA, local, and community requirements.
 Conducting an annual review of the policy to check for grammatical errors.
 Delegating all policy development and implementation to the lowest level of staff without providing oversight.
 Only focusing on maintaining policies related to the most common local hazards.


2.
Task: Ensures that emergency response results and conclusions lead to a continual improvement of the emergency management program throughout the healthcare system.
How is continual improvement of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Program (CEMP) primarily ensured after an emergency or exercise?

 By immediately discarding old plans and creating entirely new plans from scratch.
 By ensuring the emergency response results and conclusions lead to continual improvement throughout the healthcare system.
 By focusing solely on improving the response of the Incident Management Team.
 By writing an After-Action Report but not developing a corresponding Improvement Plan.


3.
Task: Provides leadership with direction management, and professional and technical expertise regarding the development and implementation of the emergency management program.
In the role of the Emergency Management Specialist, when advising Agency Executives and key stakeholders, what is the most critical subject area to provide expertise on?

 Advising only the immediate supervisor (Associate Director) and no one else.
 Providing advice exclusively on routine administrative matters not related to emergencies.
 Expertise on program and policy impacting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Program (CEMP), including vulnerable Veteran populations.
 Technical details of the automated alert and notification system.


4.
Task: Ensures supplies, communication requirements, and technical support are deployed and operational in the event of an emergency at a hospital/medical center.
When the Hospital Command Center (HCC) is activated, the most essential action concerning resource readiness is to ensure that:

 The HCC is only activated during scheduled drills, not actual emergencies.
 The equipment and supplies are only ordered after the HCC has been activated.
 Only the paper forms and writing instruments are fully stocked
 Supplies, communication requirements, and OI&T support are deployed and operational.


5.
Task: Organizes and coordinates all areas of responsibility related to a Decontamination Response Team.
As the local program manager for First Receiver Decontamination, which action is a core responsibility related to the Decontamination Response Team?

 Monitoring the Decontamination Unit Leader in organizing and coordinating all areas of responsibility related to the team, including coordinating with the Safety Officer, Industrial Hygienist, and GEMS Coordinator.
 Personally performing all of the Powered Air Purifying Respirators (PAPR) functional checks.
 Instructing the team to bypass the Decontamination Triage Leader to speed up operations.
 Maintaining the team's calling roster and nothing else.


6.
Task: Serves as a senior advisor and representative for emergency management issues.
In representing the healthcare system at meetings and conferences, the Emergency Management Specialist is expected to operate with:

 Complete silence, only observing the meeting.
 Professional and competent interaction with individuals of executive level responsibilities and authority.
 An informal and ad-hoc approach without preparation or attention to detail.
 A focus only on VA-internal policy, disregarding community concerns.


7.
Task: Develops and implements a variety of emergency management guidelines and structures for general and specific operations, including contingency plans and the continuity of operations.
The development and implementation of Emergency Management (EM) guidelines and structures must ensure they are compliant with:

 General suggestions from non-governmental organizations.
 A framework that excludes the Continuity of Operations (COOP) plan.
 Agency established guidelines for the medical center.
 Only the guidance issued by the local Medical Center Director.


The following statements pertain to the Incident Management competency (Knowledge of the tactics, technologies, principles, and processes to protect, analyze, prioritize, and handle incidents).


8.
Task: Manages and maintains a health care system's automated alert and notification system.
In managing and maintaining the automated alert and notification system, what action is the Emergency Management Specialist (EMS) responsible for?

 Designing the entire technological infrastructure of the alert system.
 Allowing external stakeholders to have full, unmonitored access to the system controls.
 Utilizing the system only for non-emergency internal communications.
 Coordinating and monitoring results with the Communication Support Team.


9.
Task: Ensures Cascade Calling Systems are updated and prepared for immediate use during any type of emergency or exercises.
To ensure the Cascade Calling Systems are prepared for immediate use, the EMS is primarily responsible for:

 Ensuring the systems are updated and prepared for immediate use during any type of emergency or exercises.
 Only updating the system after an actual emergency occurs.
 Using the system primarily for non-emergency public affairs announcements.
 Only performing system checks once per year.


10.
Task: Maintains calling rosters for Medical Response Team, Incident Management Team, Decontamination Team, and any other specialized teams requiring activation.
The key action for maintaining the calling rosters for specialized teams is to ensure they are:

 Only maintained for the Incident Management Team.
 Maintained and prepared for activation.
 Kept on a personal device that is not backed up by the organization.
 Distributed publicly outside the organization.


11.
Task: Develops and maintains contingency plans covering the provisions of continuous patient care and treatment during emergencies.
What is the primary objective of the VA Contingency Plans developed by the EMS?

 Plans that address only non-patient-related building security issues.
 Plans that are designed to be changed by the staff during an emergency.
 Covering the provisions of continuous patient care and treatment during emergencies.
 Focusing solely on administrative staff accountability.


12.
Task: Collaborates with leadership, staff, management, community partners, stakeholders, etc. to ensure guidance for continuity of care during any planned or unplanned event.
The collaboration efforts for continuity of care should be focused on ensuring guidance with which specific entities?

 Only external partners and excluding VHA leadership.
 Only those partners who have signed a financial agreement.
 Only the internal VAMC staff and no external entities.
 VISN EMS, VHA OEM, community partners, and stakeholders.


13.
Task: Serves as an expert advisor to all levels of management involved in disaster preparation, training, response and recovery operation.
In the role of expert advisor, the EMS must be ready to serve all levels of management in which phases of emergency/disaster operations?

 Disaster preparation, training, response, and recovery operations.
 Only the initial response phase.
 Only on non-emergency, day-to-day operations.
 Only the long-term recovery phase.


14.
Task: Provides guidance and assistance in all employee and vulnerable patient/Veteran accountability efforts before, during and after an emergency.
A critical action regarding accountability is ensuring that data on employee and patient/Veteran accountability is reported to:

 Only the immediate supervisor.
 The healthcare system Incident Command Center and VISN in a timely manner.
 Only after the declaration of the emergency has been officially ended.
 Only to the national media outlets.


The following statements pertain to the Planning and Evaluating competency (Determines objectives and strategies; coordinates with other parts of the organization to accomplish goals; monitors and evaluates the progress and outcomes of operational plans; anticipates potential threats or opportunities.).


15.
Task: Conducts emergency management program analysis, evaluations, and reviews ensuring plans are current meeting both internal and external requirements.
Program analysis, evaluations, and reviews are conducted by the EMS to specifically ensure plans are:

 Based on assumptions from five years prior.
 Completely independent of any regulatory or governmental requirements.
 Current and meet both internal and external requirements.
 Only compliant with the minimum internal requirements.


16.
Task: Plans, organizes, implements, oversees and provides technical assistance for projects relating to emergency management programs.
What is the primary focus of the projects for which the incumbent provides technical assistance?

 Projects that are only required during a federal holiday.
 Providing advice on projects initiated by the Department of Commerce.
 Projects focused solely on routine office maintenance.
 Projects relating to emergency management programs.


17.
Task: Recruits, evaluates, identifies, and trains specifically qualified volunteers to support national task orders.
The Disaster Emergency Personnel System (DEMPS) is a program comprised of qualified volunteers who register and train for what purpose?

 Disaster management and support of national deployment requirements.
 Only local, non-VA community events.
 To replace full-time employees on a permanent basis.
 Only internal VAMC administrative support.


18.
Task: Forecasts the decontamination sustainment fund and life cycle management of equipment.
The responsibility to forecast the decontamination sustainment fund and life cycle management of equipment is an element of:

 A one-time administrative action that does not require forecasting.
 Resource Management and Contingency Operations.
 Purchasing all new decontamination equipment every year, regardless of need.
 Program Oversight and Growth, exclusively.


19.
Task: Provides oversight to headquarters and regions in their emergency management preparedness and planning efforts.
Which entity's preparedness and planning efforts does the EMS primarily provide direct support to?
 The non-VA facilities in a different state.
 Only to the Department of Defense (DoD).
 Other facilities within the VISN.
 Only to the VISN Director's personal office.


20.
Task: Implements emergency management best practices towards quality improvement projects to enhance operations and planning activities.
The implementation of EM best practices is focused on which outcome?

 Limiting the scope of the emergency management program to only one department.
 Avoiding any form of analysis or evaluation to prevent negative findings.
 Creating a completely new set of procedures that ignore all existing best practices.
 Enhancing EM operations and planning activities through quality improvement projects.


The following statements pertain to the Vulnerabilities Assessment competency (Knowledge of the principles, methods, and tools for assessing vulnerabilities, and developing or recommending appropriate mitigation countermeasures.).


21.
Task: Develops and distributes an after-action report and improvement plan resulting from capability gaps.
The After-Action Report (AAR) and Improvement Plan (IP) are developed and distributed as a result of:

 Capability gaps identified after demobilization of the Hospital Command Center (HCC).
 A general review of a plan without an exercise or response.
 An intentional reduction of preparedness to lower the risk.
 Capability gaps identified only by the VISN.


22.
Task: Conducts sensitive and complex investigations performing analytical, liaison and advisory work in developing and evaluating policies to protect personnel, property, critical assets and information from loss.
The analytical, liaison, and advisory work performed during investigations is focused on developing and evaluating policies that protect against:

 Only financial market fluctuations.
 Loss of personnel, property, critical assets, and information.
 Developing policies that intentionally exclude critical assets from protection.
 Only minor administrative errors.


23.
Task: Works with committee and community partners to perform hazard vulnerability analysis (HVA) requiring assessment of risks having potential to interrupt the continuity of critical operations.
What is the core function of the Hazard Vulnerability Analysis (HVA)?

 Assessing risks related to the weather outside of the organization's location.
 A process that is performed only once and never updated.
 Assessment of risks having the potential to interrupt the continuity of critical operations.
 Only documenting the names of all committee members.


24.
Task: Delivers the advancement of healthcare system programs through risk documentation, mitigation, training of internal and externally in collaboration with community partners.
The advancement of healthcare system programs is delivered through which essential actions in collaboration with community partners?

 Exclusively mitigating risks that have no potential for impact.
 Ignoring the findings of the HVA and focusing only on administrative tasks.
 Only documenting the risks without implementing any training or mitigation.
 Risk documentation, mitigation, and internal and external training.


The following statements pertain to the Communication competency (Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.).


25.
Task: Develops presentations and reports, and records contingency education units to appropriate professional organizations.
Contingency education units are developed, reported, and recorded for which primary audience?

 Appropriate professional organizations.
 Only the internal VAMC security guards.
 The general, non-professional public as the sole audience.
 Only the VAMC front desk staff.


26.
Task: Provides personnel, patients, contractors and visitors with direction and advice regarding emergency management activities, policies, procedures, guidelines, directives, and organizational information.
Who does the EMS provide direction and advice to regarding Emergency Management activities and policies?

 Only the highest-level VHA executives.
 Personnel, patients, contractors, and visitors.
 Only individuals who are certified in the Incident Command System.
 Only external non-VA personnel.


27.
Task: Establishes and maintains relationships with the stakeholders, and/or community to communicate and disseminate program information with results in an understanding of the agency's mission and activities.
The purpose of communicating and disseminating program information to the community and stakeholders is to achieve what outcome?

 To solely collect personal contact information from the community.
 To actively discourage community understanding of the agency's mission.
 Results in an understanding of the agency's mission and activities.
 To establish an internal, private network only for the EMS.


28.
Task: Establishes, maintains, and fosters strong working relationships with partners at national, regional and local levels.
Effective working relationships are to be fostered with partners at which three main levels?

 Only the local VAMC level.
 Only the international level, excluding all domestic partners.
 Only the state and county level.
 National, regional, and local levels.


Veteran's Preference Documentation Reminder - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member copy 4 or earlier version that shows Character of Service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, application for 10-point veteran's preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title duties (be as detailed as possible) month & year start/end dates (e.g., June 2007 to April 2008) full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙