Position Title
Epidemiologist
Agency
Food and Drug Administration
Announcement Number
FDA-CTP-25-DH-12759471-SK Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2025 to Jul 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current employee of any agency within the Department of Health & Human Services (HHS) who has been notified that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by reduction-in-force (RIF)? If the duty station of your job you're separating from is in the same local commuting area as this vacancy, is at or below the grade level of this vacancy, and has the same (or lower) promotion potential as this vacancy, you may be entitled to selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
You must submit the documentation identified for I/CTAP under the Required Documents section of the job advertisement.




 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee of another agency (not the HHS) who has been notified that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by reduction-in-force (RIF)?  If the duty station of your job you're separating from is in the same local commuting area as this vacancy, is at or below the grade level of this vacancy, and has the same (or lower) promotion potential as this vacancy, you may be entitled to selection priority under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)..
You must submit the documentation identified for I/CTAP under the Required Documents section of the job advertisement.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?
You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS VERY CAREFULLY. YOUR RESPONSES WILL AFFECT YOUR CONSIDERATION FOR THIS POSITION!
This advertisement is in accordance with merit promotion procedures. This means that only specific groups of applicants are eligible for consideration (as identified in the "This job is open to" section of the JOA). The following questions will determine if you are within any of these specific groups eligible for consideration under this advertisement. You will only be considered for each eligibility which you respond "Yes" to.
NOTE: There is an exception, as noted below, for status candidates who do not select the correct type of consideration for referral purposes (i.e., competitive vs. non-competitive).

If you respond "Yes" to an eligibility and do not provide the required documentation, you will not be considered under the eligibility. If you respond "No" to all eligibility options in this list, your application will not be considered under this advertisement.

For more information about each eligibility, please review the following article on USAJOBS, "Which jobs am I eligible to apply for?"
If you still have questions about this advertisement or your potential eligibility, please e-mail quickquestions@fda.gov or call 888-478-4340.


2.

===== Acknowledgement of Restrictions on the Employment of Relatives by Public Officials =====
5 U.S. Code, § 3110 lays out specific and important restrictions on the employment of relatives within an agency.
A public official of a government agency may not appoint, promote, or otherwise advocate for the employment, advancement, or promotion of relatives within the agency for which the public official is employed or has control over.
Employees hired in violation of 5 U.S. Code, § 3110 will not be entitled to any pay for their period of employment, and any pay already received before the violation becomes known, will be considered as a debt to the government on the part of the employed individual.

For the purpose of this question, a "relative" is defined as: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

QUESTION:
After having read the definition of "relative" as stated above, does the Food and Drug Administration employ any of your relatives?

IF YES: You must provide the following information, for each relative employed by the FDA:

The full legal name of the relative.
The relative's relationship to you (from the list above).
If known, the relative's employing organization and position.
IF NO: Please type "No" in the box below.


3.
Your responses to the all questions, and any information or documentation which you provide as part of your application, will be thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and truthfulness. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, your application will not be considered. Knowingly providing false information in your application (or submitted documentation) is a crime!
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in my application is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
I understand that if I intentionally make a false statement, or commit deception or fraud in my application, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC, Sec 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR, Part 731).
I understand that any information I provide may be investigated.
I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
Do you accept the conditions above?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?


(Note: If you currently do not have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter you must request one from the Selective Service System. A copy of your proof of registration or the exemption/Status Information Letter must be provided prior to appointment.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


5.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959 AND you have NOT registered with the Selective Service System, do you have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter from the Selective Service System?


(Note: If you currently do not have an approved exemption or Status Information Letter you must request one from the Selective Service System. A copy of your proof of registration or the exemption/Status Information Letter must be provided prior to appointment.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the Basic Requirements for the Epidemiologist, series 0601, position.
 I have a bachelor’s or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position. This degree must be from an educational program from an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.
 I do not meet the educational requirement as described above.


2.
From the description below, select the one which best describes your experience and meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements (specialized experience) for the Epidemiologist GS-0601-13 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service, which includes planning, designing, and conducting epidemiologic studies and surveys on tobacco and/or other regulated products that analyzes public health issues and their impact on public health policies and preparing and communicating reports documenting the epidemiological findings.
 I do not meet the experience requirement as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙