Position Title
Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-RH-13054244-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Heavy Mobile Equipment Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex diagnostic troubleshooting, complete rebuilds, and overhauls on heavy-duty mobile equipment and marine vessels. I am an expert in completely disassembling, rebuilding, calibrating, and testing complex multi-fuel/diesel engines, torqueomatic cross-drive transmissions, differentials, and final drives. I can synchronize dual engines using precision diagnostic tools. I routinely isolate highly complex 12V/24V electrical, pneumatic, and hydraulic failures. I am fully proficient in operating heavy engineering equipment. I operate vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 26,000 pounds and possess a valid commercial driver’s license (CDL). I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of journeyman-level troubleshooting, overhaul, and repair work on heavy-duty mobile equipment and vehicles. I can independently disassemble, repair, and reassemble engines, transmissions, mechanical steering, suspension/tracked systems, and hydraulic/air brake systems. I can diagnose and repair standard electrical system failures (12V and 24V) and fuel system components, including carburetors, fuel pumps, and fuel lines. I have experience operating heavy engineering equipment. I operate vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 26,000 pounds and possess a valid commercial driver’s license (CDL). I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common journeyman-level diagnostic testing, component replacement, and minor-to-moderate repairs on heavy mobile equipment and vehicles. I can perform routine engine tune-ups, adjust linkages, replace worn parts (such as road wheels, tracks, brake shoes, and starters), and perform minor structural/hull adjustments. I can troubleshoot basic electrical wiring and replace standard fuel components like fuel lines, fuel pumps, or carburetors. I operate vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 26,000 pounds and possess a valid commercial driver’s license (CDL). I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple basic maintenance functions on heavy mobile equipment, or I have received training on completing a variety of basic heavy mobile equipment repairs such as determining when parts should be cleaned and adjusted or replaced with standard parts. I am able to use basic tools common to the occupation (e.g., wrenches, sockets, torque wrenches, and screwdrivers).
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙