Position Title
SENIOR HEALTH PHYSICIST
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13027226-26-KD Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. Naperville, IL
 C. Rockville, MD
 D. King of Prussia, PA
 E. Arlington, TX


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


Assessment 1
1.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent that includes experience applying the principles of nuclear safety, radiation protection, and NRC regulations and guidance related to the use of byproduct material.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


2.
Select the answer that best describes your education and experience to perform duties in the 1306 Health Physics series.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree (or higher) in natural science or engineering that included at least 30 semester hours in health physics, engineering, radiological science, chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and/or calculus.
 I have a combination of experience and education that includes at least 30 semester hours in health physics, engineering, radiological science, chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and/or calculus, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I am certified as a health physicist by the American Board of Health Physics and have appropriate experience and other education that provided an understanding of sciences applicable to health physics comparable to that described in answer choice A.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙