Position Title
Wildlife Refuge Specialist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R8-26-12997119-RM-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below: 

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive, Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency (U.S. Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) and are serving or served under a time-limited competitive service appointment (Term, Temporary)?  You may be eligible to compete under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, P.L. 114-47.

Current land management agency appointees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; must have been separated (with respect to their most recent separation) for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two years of their most recent date of separation.

You must provide documentation showing all required periods of service which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations or references from supervisors (if employed for periods of time too short to require an appraisal) for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.

For more information about Land Management Workforce Eligibility:  USAJOBS Help Center - Land management

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


5.
Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service AND has held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive, current, permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Education Requirement


For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Basic Education Requirement
 I have completed a 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a Bachelor's or higher degree with major in zoology, wildlife management, or an appropriate field of biology that included at least 9 semester hours in zoology; 6 semester hours in such wildlife courses as mammalogy, ornithology, animal ecology, or wildlife management; 3 semester hours in botany, and 3 semester hours in conservation biology.
 I have completed courses in an accredited college or university equivalent to a major in zoology, wildlife management, or appropriate field of biology that included at least 9 semester hours in zoology; 6 semester hours in such wildlife courses as mammalogy, ornithology, animal ecology, or wildlife management; 3 semester hours in botany, and 3 semester hours in conservation biology PLUS appropriate experience and/or additional education comparable to the completion of a 4-year course of study. NOTE: This experience must be detailed in your resume if qualifying under this standard.
 My education and/or experience is not described above.


Minimum Qualifications


2.
Minimum Qualifications
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Specialized experience may include: 1) planning, administering, evaluating, managing, or operating some programs, activities and projects associated with conserving and managing fish and/or wildlife resources for a large program; 2) managing natural resources on public or private lands for the purpose of providing critical habitat for fish and/or wildlife, 3) using a variety of communication methods to convey technical or non-technical natural resource information to a variety of audiences; 4) leading a small team of professional or nonprofessional personnel in a natural resource environment. NOTE: Your resume must contain sufficient detail, e.g., begin/end dates, hours worked per week, duties performed, etc. of each timeframe for consideration.
 I have 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education or PhD or equivalent doctoral degree in a field of study directly related to the position. NOTE: Transcripts required.
 I have a combination of qualifying specialized experience and qualifying graduate education (both as described above) that, when computed as percentages of their respective requirements, equals at least 100% when combined. Only education beyond the second graduate year (36 semesters) is creditable using this method. NOTE: Transcripts required, and your resume must contain sufficient information at this level of work, e.g., complete begin/end dates, hours worked per week, duties performed, etc., for each period of work for consideration.
 My experience is not described above.


Self Certification


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙