Position Title
Regional Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0425 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum qualifications for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0101 Social Science Series?
 I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have at least four (4) years of appropriate experience demonstrated to represent acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 I have no experience with the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least six (6) years of specialized experience in victim assistance or advocacy within either military or civilian sector? (Note, if basic qualification is met with experience, this may also be credited for specialized experience requirement, if appropriate (e.g. four years of appropriate experience in victim assistance or advocacy, also meets 4 of 6 years of specialized experience requirement.)
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have performing the full range of supervisory duties, such as managing workflows, conducting performance reviews, taking corrective actions for disciplinary issues?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have conducting effective sexual assault prevention and response trainings and briefings?
 I have 5+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Which describes your experience interpreting and applying sexual assault prevention and response policies (please select all that apply)?
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Navy (DON).
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside of the DON.
 I have experience with the above within the federal government, but outside of the DoD.
 I have experience with the above within state or local government, or private industry.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙