Position Title
MILITARY FUNERAL HONOR PROGRAM COORDINATOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13008131-T5-26-573 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education, and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
What status/category applicant are you for this advertisement?

 I am Category 1: Current MTARNG permanent (tenure 1 or 2) Title 5 employees.
 I am Category 2: Current MTARNG permanent (tenure 1 or 2) Title 32 employees.
 I am Category 3: Term and NTE T5 (tenure 3 or 0) on-board MTARNG employees.
 I am Category 4: Indefinite (tenure 3) or NTE (tenure 0) on-board MTARNG T32 employees.
 I am Category 5: Current and Former military members of the MTARNG (Must provide membership proof, i.e., copy of NGB 22/22a or other docs membership proof/honorable service with application).
 I am Category 6: Current or re-employable Federal Employees (Must provide SF-50 showing status; former employees that are re-employable are competitive T5 with career status).
 I do not fall into any of the above categories.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable?? work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE OR EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management. Experience developing administrative procedures.
(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume, if using specialized experience to qualify)

OR

B) A master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
(MUST provide copies of all relevant transcripts, if using education to qualify)

OR

C) A combination of Specialized experience and Education equal to 100% of the requirements.
(MUST address your experiences and provide copies of all relevant transcripts, if using a combination of experience and education to qualify)

Do you meet one of the above experience and/or education requirements?
 I meet the requirements in item A.
 I meet the requirements in item B.
 I meet the requirements in item C.
 I DO NOT meet any of the above.


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Must have experience providing technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Applicants must have a thorough knowledge and understanding of administrative procedures and practices of management. Experience developing administrative procedures.(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume, if using specialized experience to qualify)

OR

B) A master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.(MUST provide copies of all relevant transcripts, if using education to qualify)

OR

C) A combination of Specialized experience and Education equal to 100% of the requirements.(MUST address your experiences and provide copies of all relevant transcripts, if using a combination of experience and education to qualify)


4a.
This is a required field. 
If using option A to qualify, please explain your experiences here. Note: you will still be required to list any qualifying experiences on your resume.
If using options B to qualify, please note your degree here and submit applicable transcripts.
If using option C to qualify, please explain your experiences and submit applicable transcripts.
If this field is blank or missing qualifying information, you may not be considered for interview.


5.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙