Position Title
SECURITY OFFICER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-13031136-AF-26-034A Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


2.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


Military Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 SFS) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 SFS) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E1 to E9 willing to commission as an Officer) or Officer (O1 to O3)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080 Security Specialist (PROTTECTION).
 I HAVE the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade for one of the seven organizational program disciplines (Force Protection/Anti-Terrorism, Information Protection Security, Physical Security, Security Forces, Security Training, Security Unit Deployment Manager, and Special Security Office Security) and the applicable Security Series career level .
 I DO NOT HAVE the education and validated understanding listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080 Security Specialist (PROTTECTION).
 I HAVE at least 36 months in the Security career field or intelligence career field to include technical training schools and drill-status working experience.
 I DO NOT have at least 36 months of the experience, education or training listed above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0080 Security Specialist (PROTTECTION).
 I HAVE 1) experience in developing, implementing, and managing a NC National Guard State’s law enforcement, physical security, wing security, and Anti-Terrorism and Force Protection programs, 2) must have experience in formulating and implementing plans and processes, overcoming obstacles and conflicts, and managing the state’s force protection and anti-terrorism programs, 3) must have experiences in reviewing, analyzing, and assessing law enforcement sensitive information, 4) experienced in managing and directing assigned program areas, conducting studies and reviews; and, writing, publishing and implementing force protection policies and projects, 5) knowledgeable in security program specialties to include physical, personnel, and operational security, 6) experienced in correctly identifying and resolving conflicting and complex policy and program objectives, and procedures within the security functional area, 7) experienced in the specialized field of force protection and anti-terrorism, and physical and operations security, 8) has comprehensive, authoritative knowledge of Executive Orders, legislation, and Department of Defense, National Guard Bureau, United States Army, US Air Force, Major Commands and Major Components’ policy requirements, 9) Experienced in formulating comprehensive and integrated state force protection programs; and experienced in applying regulatory requirements and reducing command specific vulnerabilities, 10) competent to apply innovative and new security theories and concepts to provide overall enhanced security of installation resources and personnel, 11) must have experiences in managing and supervising work functions and discipline requirements, 12) experienced in conducting employee performance evaluations; mentoring junior officers and enlisted squadron employees, managing resources and budgets; and directing assigned work, and leading the employees on all program tasks, inspections, exercises, deployments, and/or mobilizations, 13) must have experiences in planning and scheduling work in a manner that promotes smooth flow and even distribution of assigning work requirements, 14) experiences included Information Protection program training and guiding employees on programs and through assigned tasks, 15) experiences involved balancing Information Protection program requirements and providing advice, guidance, and direction on a wide variety of the program’s policies and employee performance administrative issues, 16) experienced in structuring assignments to create effective and efficient procedures that resulted in measuring improved task processes, 17) previous supervisory experiences created improvements in mentoring, training applications and career development that resulted in the employees’ increased performance values in quality work, timeliness considerations, and work efficiencies, 18) must have demonstrated experiences or endorsements on mentorship competencies provided to employees and 19) must have working knowledge of equal employment and affirmative action programs.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience or knowledge listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙