Position Title
Senior Human Resources Specialist (Compensation and Policy)
Agency
Supreme Court of the United States
Announcement Number
SCOTUS-12934564-HR Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you have a bachelor's degree?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current employee of the Supreme Court of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
All applicants are required to submit a cover letter and resume. Please note that generic or re-used cover letters will not be accepted; resumes may be in any format.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Is a resume and cover letter included as part of your application package?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a college degree in business, human resources management, accounting or a related field and at least two years of work experience inside of a human resources office, or six years of human resources experience?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience with QuickTime or another federal timekeeping system and providing advice to staff regarding timecard coding and leave usage?
 Yes
 No


Narrative responses must directly address the subject of the question asked. Comments such as "see resume" will not be accepted.


4.
Please describe your experience analyzing, recommending, and implementing the migration of an organization to a new HR system.


5.
Please describe your experience using Oracle, OAS, Datamart, Excel, and/or other systems to create and analyze reports related to pay, benefits, and personnel actions.


6.
Please describe your experience with compensation policies and writing personnel policies and procedures.


7.
Please describe your experience with FPPS, OuickTime, PeopleSoft, or other automated HR action processing and automated timekeeping systems.


8.
Please describe your experience with timekeeping, payroll, leave administration and workers compensation programs.


9.
What is the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position?
 SCP 11
 SCP 12
 SCP 13


You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility to advance in the application process will be based on experience listed on your resume. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙