Position Title
Supervisory Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12974970-26-BC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical position in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Please select the best response.


1.
To meet basic requirements as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical in the VHA you must have experience, education, or a combination of both. Select the response that best describes your ability to meet the basic requirements. The entry level grade for this position is a GS-9.
 Basic Experience: I possess one (1) year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates my ability to perform the work or provides me with an understanding of the work such as, but not limited to, a medical or clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician.
 Basic Education: I possess four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor’s degree with courses related to the occupation (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, introduction to health records, etc.). Transcripts Required.
 Basic Combination 1: I possess equivalent combinations of experience and education such as six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included as least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science, surgical technician courses, nursing assistant, or other courses related to the position; or an associate’s degree in a health care related field. Transcripts Required
 Basic Combination 2: I possess equivalent combinations of experience and education such as six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialist given by the U.S. Armed Forces. Transcripts or other documentation required.
 I do not possess any of the experience or education as described in A, B, C, or D above.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions


2.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience to qualify for a Supervisory Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical at the GS-9 grade level.


3.
I possess at least one full year of experience as a Health Technician - Telehealth Clinical equivalent to the next lower level (GS-7)which demonstrates the ability to perform a full range of duties to include the incumbent performs a full range of supervisory duties to include complex assignments and program management in the direct oversight of a team of Health Technicians (Telehealth Clinical). Supervisory duties will include: interviewing and selecting staff; assigning, amending or rejecting work; ensuring production and accuracy requirements are met; the development of performance plans including recommending performance standards and ratings, and conducting regular performance appraisals of staff. Additionally, the incumbent will respond to questions or matters not covered by standards and problems in meeting performance standards and effect corrective and disciplinary measures to address conduct and performance issues; responsible for the creation and modification of work schedules to meet anticipated and unanticipated changes in the workload and to oversee attendance and review and approve leave requests of direct reports ensuring adequate staff is available to perform all needed telehealth duties; involved in the development of policies and standard operating procedures, analyzing program workload, the acquisition and deployment of telehealth equipment. The incumbent will work independently to set priorities, delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems, and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time. In addition to the experience above, I can demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties which includes responsibility for assignment of work to be performed, performance evaluations, selection of qualified staff, and recommendations of awards, advancements, and when appropriate disciplinary actions. (b) Ability to plan, organize, and coordinate clinical workflow and set short and long-term goals for the program. (c) Ability to work independently, to set priorities, delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems, and develop and implement effective solutions to optimize quality, efficiency, performance, and productivity within the service. (d) Ability to develop policy, manage equipment requests, and provide workload analysis. (e) Knowledge of all Connected Care programs and operations
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙