Position Title
Customer Service Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12959522-26-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 11, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
(Minimum Qualifications) Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work at the GS-7 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
To qualify at the GS-7 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level or higher and/or meet educational requirements or a combination of specialized experience and education.
Specialized Experience:
Experience with insurance, claims, billing, congressional offices, and third party administrators.
Experience in customer service/relations, educating patient/providers, and resolving issues.
Technical Experience with Health Informatics associated with multiple computer software packages.
Experience reporting to leadership, collecting data, data analysis, and building reports.
Experience in the healthcare field, medical terminology, and chart reviews.
OR
Education: Successfully completed one full year of graduate level education in a field related to this position that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. Note: Transcripts are required. 
OR 
Superior Academic Achievement: Completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled and I meet one of the following: Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university or major subdivision; A grade-point average of "B" (a GPA of 2.95 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; A grade point average of "B+" (a GPA of 3.45 or higher out of a possible 4.0) for all courses in your major field of study, or those courses in your major completed in the last two years of undergraduate study; Membership in a national honor society (other than freshman honor societies) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies. For a list of recognized honor societies please visit http://www.achsnatl.org/quick_link.asp. 
Note: Transcripts are required.
OR
Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Only education beyond a bachelor's degree may be used to qualify for the GS-07 level.
 I possess at least (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level ( GS-05) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Customer Service Specialist. Qualifying specialized experience includes Experience with insurance, claims, billing, congressional offices, and third party administrators. Experience in customer service/relations, educating patient/providers, and resolving issues. Technical Experience with Health Informatics associated with multiple computer software packages. Experience reporting to leadership, collecting data, data analysis, and building reports. Experience in the healthcare field, medical terminology, and chart reviews.
 Yes, I have 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement (transcripts required). .
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience and education Equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Only education beyond a bachelor's degree may be used to qualify for the GS-07 level.
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


2.
(Minimum Qualifications) Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work at the GS-9 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
To qualify at the GS-9 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level or higher and/or meet educational requirements or a combination of specialized experience and education.
Specialized Experience:
Experience with polices, precedents, goals, objectives, laws, VA guidelines related to the authorization and payment for care in the community sufficient to analyze and evaluate the continual changes in the program.
 Experience with health services research methods, including data collection and management methods, analysis design, interpretation of study results and translation of study results into action plans.
Skilled in solving complex problems associated with the day-to-day operations concerning customer service issues in a positive, goal-oriented way, including the ability to take quick and effective action when necessary.
Skilled in the use of research tools, assessment of data, establishment of effective research modalities and the maintenance of data for research for all inquiries. Utilizes available software and other data to provide a complete picture of research and the results.
OR
Education: Successfully completed a Master's or equivalent, or 2 years of progressively higher level education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B or J.D.in a field related to this position that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. Note: Transcripts are required.
OR
Combination of Specialized Experience and Education: Equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience (beyond the first graduate year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Note: Transcripts are required.
 I possess at least (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level ( GS-07) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Customer Service Specialist. Qualifying specialized experience includes Experience with polices, precedents, goals, objectives, laws, VA guidelines related to the authorization and payment for care in the community sufficient to analyze and evaluate the continual changes in the program. Skilled in the use of economic analysis, cost, cost benefit, cost effectiveness, productivity input/output and demand analysis in the healthcare system, both within the VA and the private sector.  Experience with health services research methods, including data collection and management methods, analysis design, interpretation of study results and translation of study results into action plans. Skilled in solving complex problems associated with the day-to-day operations concerning customer service issues in a positive, goal-oriented way, including the ability to take quick and effective action when necessary. Skilled in the use of research tools, assessment of data, establishment of effective research modalities and the maintenance of data for research for all inquiries. Utilizes available software and other data to provide a complete picture of research and the results.
 Yes, I have earned a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related (transcripts required).
 Yes, I have a combination of specialized experience and education, Equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience (beyond the first graduate year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet the total experience requirements. The education portion must include graduate courses that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. Note: Transcripts are required.
 No, my experience and/or education is not described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙