Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTD-12989204-26-MAW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Registered Respiratory Therapist position at Edward P. Boland VA Medical Center in Leeds MA. This assessment is designed to determine an applicants eligibility through their education and experience. Please answer each question below to show how you meet the basic requirements of the occupation as well as the grade determining factors.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement:
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d)? To be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA, applicants must be proficient in written and spoken English.
 Yes
 No


2.
Education:
Do you possess the basic educational requirement of completing a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor ?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please enter the following information regarding your education in a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor
Name of School:
Degree Obtained:
Conferred Date:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Licensure Requirement:
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601 series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.

Do you possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please enter the following information regarding your Licensure showing that you possess and maintain a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
License Number:
State that issued License:
Expiration Date:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Credentialing Requirement:
Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.

Do you possess and maintain a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT ?
 Yes
 No


7.
Grade Determination:
Registered Respiratory Therapist GS-11 Full Performance Level : Experience, Licensure and Credential and meet all KSA's.

In addition to the basic requirements candidates must have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level. Examples of this experience includes but is not limited to:
Obtain, interpret, and analyze physiological specimens and data;
Consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality patient care;
Manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means;
Assess and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation;
Provide outpatient services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.
 Yes
 No


8.
GS-11 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes;
Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities;
Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable, however, you will be required to furnish official transcripts prior to appointment.


SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (for Eligibility and/or Time-in-Grade):

If you are a current federal employee, you must attach your most recent, non-award SF-50. This SF-50 should not be more than a year old and must show your current position, grade and step. Award SF-50's typically do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted if they do not include Grade and Step.

In order to clearly demonstrate you possess the time-in-grade as required by the announcement, additional SF-50s should be attached which clearly demonstrate the minimum time-in-grade requirement. 
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old
PLEASE CONTACT THE HR SPECIALIST LISTED ON THE ANNOUNCEMENT IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THE PROPER SF-50S. NO EXCEPTIONS WILL BE MADE AFTER THE CLOSING DATE.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙