Position Title
Pipefitter
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
MCFS-26-13062508-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 50lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Pipefitter position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Pipefitter duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex task associated with the journeyman level pipefitter, typical of which are the following: Completes paperwork related to jobs and materials used. May direct the work of lower graded personnel. Operates vehicle to transport materials to worksite. Plans and lays out work utilizing blueprints or lay-out sketches. Determines tools required and estimates necessary materials such as pipe, fittings, in the sizes, types of lengths needed. I am skilled in troubleshooting and analyzing defects. Performs general repairs and replacement of new equipment, all types of plumbing and steam systems/equipment together with related work on controls, valves, traps, pumps, for the water, and sewage and water fixtures and facilities such as hydrants. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of task associated with the journeyman level pipefitter, typical of which are the following: Lay out work utilizing blueprints or sketches. Determines tools required and estimates necessary materials such as pipe, fittings, in the sizes, types of lengths needed. I am skilled in performance of general repairs and replacement of new equipment, all types of plumbing and steam systems/equipment together with related work on controls, valves, traps, pumps, for the water, and sewage and water fixtures and facilities such as hydrants. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks including plan and lay out work utilizing blueprints or lay-out sketches. Determines tools required and estimates necessary materials such as pipe, fittings, in the sizes, types of lengths needed. I can perform general repairs and replacement of new equipment. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple task by determine tools required and estimate necessary materials such as pipe, fittings, in the sizes, types of lengths needed. or I have received training on general repairs and replacement of new equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙