Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN)
Agency
Office of Administration
Announcement Number
EOP-OA-13074075-26-DLH-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently a permanent Federal employee (Career or Career-Conditional) assigned to a component within the Executive Office of the President (EOP) seeking a reassignment or promotion under Merit Promotion procedures?

If yes, confirm: Your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflects career or career-conditional status (Block 24 is a "1" or "2") AND the position is in the competitive service (Block 34 is a "1").

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a legible copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action. If you have previously held a higher grade, or if your position has a higher full performance level, please ensure you submit all relevant SF-50s (such as your initial promotion or appointment form) to support your prior grades and time-in-grade requirements. We cannot accept Award SF-50s (e.g., cash or performance awards). All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.


 Yes
 No


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies within the Executive Office of the President who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
All individuals must have IT related experience demonstrating each of the following four competencies: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Oral Communication, and Problem Solving. Select the letter corresponding to the statement that most closely matches how you meet the basic requirement for the Information Technology Specialist (INFOSEC) position.
 I have IT related experience demonstrating all of the following: - Attention to Detail - is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; - Customer Service - works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; - Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; AND - Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-2210-15, Supervisory IT Specialist (PLCYPLN)
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-14) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector which includes: 1) Applying project management principles, methods, and practices to include the ability to determine resources needed to meet objective; 2) Managing and leading a team; 3) Managing a procurement cycle from start to finish; 4) Producing deliverables, acquisition packages, budgeting, and technology department COR certifications; and 5) Reviewing and interpreting a government procurement process and overall procurement activities.
 I do not possess the experience described in the above statement.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in the questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙