Position Title
Range Technician (Weeds) (Temporary Seasonal)
Agency
Bureau of Land Management
Announcement Number
COTEMP-26-12893456-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Only the first two pages of the resume will be used to determine eligibility/qualifications. The first two pages of my resume contains the required information to qualify for the position; I understand that any additional information will not be reviewed.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Range Technician position with the Bureau of Land Management.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform range technician work at the GS-07 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I possess one (1) full year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-6 level. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization as indicated by the following examples: Work in the conservation, regulation, and use of public or Federally controlled lands for grazing, range research activities, work in the operation of a livestock ranch or in assisting in the management or preservation of lands comparable to the public range, range or forest fire control, prevention, or suppression work. forest fire control, prevention, or suppression work.
 I have successfully completion one year of graduate education (18 semester hours) in a field that is directly related to the work of this position. Transcripts must be provided.
 I have a combination of Education and Experience: combinations of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience that total 100%. Transcripts must be provided.
 I do not meet any of the above responses.


2.
Identify the vegetative monitoring and inventory work you have been responsible for on the job: Select all that apply.
 A. Conduct vegetative studies such as condition and trend, utilization, actual use, and other studies for allotment evaluation.
 B. Train and monitor crews carrying out vegetative studies.
 C. Make recommendations based on interpretation of resource data on allotment conditions.
 D. Prepare pre-inventory maps by preliminary delineation on aerial photography.
 E. Conduct vegetative inventory surveys and select appropriate guidelines and techniques to use.
 F. Review data for technical accuracy and transfer to forms for computer data analysis.
 G. None of the above


3.
Select all the tasks that you have performed relating to species identification of rangeland, woodland, forest or wetland vegetation. Select all that apply.
 A. I have identified grasses, forbs, shrubs and /or trees to species using a dichotomous key. 30%
 B. I have identified grasses, forbs, shrubs and /or trees to subspecies or variety using a dichotomous key.
 C. I have identified non-flowering plants, lichens and/or fungi to species using a dichotomous key.
 D. I have collected plant specimens for herbarium mounts.
 E. I maintain a record book for all my plant collections.
 F. I have mounted specimens for a BLM office herbarium or other herbaria.
 G. I have contacted or visited a local, regional or national herbarium to help me identify specimens.
 H. I have submitted mounted specimens to a local, regional or national herbarium for identification.
 I. I have submitted mounted specimens to a local, regional or national herbarium to verify my identification.
 J. I have identified grasses forbs, shrubs and/or trees to species using photos or materials other than keys.
 K. I have identified non-flowering plants, lichens and/or fungi using photos or materials other than keys.
 L. None of the above. MCSS:


4.
Select the statement that describes your knowledge of geographic information systems (GIS), including base techniques and accurate mapping/navigating protocols.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


5.
Identify the specialized work related to evaluation of natural resource planning, inventory, and environmental assessment documents that you have performed in your work:
 A. Evaluate proposals to modify established content of natural resource planning, inventory and/or environmental assessment documents for an organization concerned with public land management.
 B. Establish standards and policy regarding natural resource planning, inventory and/or environmental assessment documents for an organization concerned with public land management.
 C. Modify established content standards of natural resource planning, inventory and/or environmental assessment documents. Refine natural resource planning, inventory and/or environmental assessment document content standards based on a technical review committee.
 D. Organize evaluations of content standards for natural resource planning, inventory and/or environmental assessment documents. Translate the results of a natural resource document content standard review into training needs.
 E. Monitor and make assessments of the technical content of natural resource planning and environmental assessment documents.
 F. Monitor and make assessments of the current application of content standards for natural resource planning and environmental assessment documents.
 G. None of the above.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to communicate technical information for oral presentations.
 I have not presented or provided technical or non-technical information.
 I have successfully completed a communications course requiring the oral presentation of non-technical information to audiences.
 I have successfully completed a communications course requiring the oral presentation of technical information to audiences.
 I have routinely provided technical information as a speaker at public meetings (or equivalent).


7.
Indicate your level of experience as it relates to your application of scientific rangeland ecosystem management principles, practices, theories and techniques in order to assess resources for proper rangeland health.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


8.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience, education or training in coordinating with other resource disciplines such as wildlife, cultural, minerals, recreation, forestry, fire management, etc. in completing planning and environmental documents.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


9.
Please check each of the following that describes your experience in rangeland monitoring. Select all that apply.
 A. I have conducted an up-land health assessment.
 B. I have conducted an ecological site inventory.
 C. I have conducted photo plot monitoring.
 D. I have conducted Daubenmire or frequency transects.
 E. I have conducted line intercept transects.
 F. I have conducted riparian assessments.
 G. I have conducted key forage transects.
 H. I have conducted an allotment evaluation.
 I. I have conducted a Standards Conformance Review.
 J. I have conducted rangeland utilization studies.
 K. None of the above


10.
Identify the statements that describe your experience working with people on a regular basis. Select all that apply.
 A. I participate in one-on-one interactions with co-workers to accomplish work-related duties.
 B. I exchange information in one-on-one situations with others outside of the immediate work group.
 C. I handle customer complaints or problems; propose new procedures; work well with a variety of people including immediate supervisor and the public.
 D. I direct incoming calls and visitors to staff who can best help them.
 E. I cooperate with others on projects or tasks; elicit necessary information from others who are uncooperative or uninterested.
 F. I tactfully handle difficult or uncomfortable situations, work well with others from diverse backgrounds and across levels in the agency or organization.
 G. I answer routine questions & provide assistance to callers or visitors and resolve administrative issues.
 H. None of the above


11.
I perform the following grazing administration tasks:
 A. I have processed grazing applications.
 B. I have processed grazing permits/leases.
 C. I have processed grazing bills.
 D. None of the above


12.
Indicate your level of proficiency as it relates to your use of an automated Rangeland Administration System (RAS).
 I have not had training or experience with an automated RAS.
 I have had training and experience in an automated RAS, but use it only occasionally in my work.
 I have used an automated RAS as a regular part of my job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or more experienced employee.
 I am considered an expert in the use of an automated RAS and am consulted by other RAS users for assistance with their work.


13.
Indicate the level of your proficiency as it relates to planning, designing, constructing and inspecting range improvement projects.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


14.
Identify the specialized work related to natural resource management land use planning and environmental analysis that you have performed on the job. Select all that apply.
 A. Interpret planning documents and NEPA laws, regulations, policies, and guidance for specific land and resource management programs or projects.
 B. Analyze methods and provide guidance to management for planning and environmental processes on public lands. Assist in the development of implementation strategies for planning and NEPA decisions related to public land management.
 C. Resolve protests or appeals related to public land uses or natural resource management projects.
 D. Coordinate identification of inventory and data collection needed to conduct natural resource management planning and NEPA decision-making efforts.
 E. Coordinate natural resource assessment activities to determine resource conditions in advance of planning and decision making for public land use. Coordinate land or environmental monitoring activities to assure that land use decisions are being implemented and desired effects are being achieved.
 F. Review and evaluate land planning documents for meeting regulatory requirements and recommend changes to comply with directives and guidance. Identify, develop, and implement strategies for natural resource planning systems and NEPA decisions.
 G. Apply knowledge of biology and life history of plan communities and species found in forested and rangeland ecosystems.
 H. None of the above


15.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙