Position Title
Social Worker (National Program Director)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12848312-26-SG Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Social Worker (National Manager) position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for placement consideration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current situation.

To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional Grade-Level qualification requirements. Grandfather Provision: A Social Worker employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (9/10/2019) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0185-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.

Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Current Federal Employees: You must submit a copy of your most recent (2025) Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Additionally, you must submit a SF-50 to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50's that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: 
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Education Requirement: Do you hold a master's degree in social work from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)?
Note: Graduates of schools of social work that are in candidacy status do not meet this requirement until the school of social work is fully accredited. A doctoral degree in Social Work may NOT be substituted for the master's degree in social work.
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master’s degree.
Name of Institution:
Institution Address, City and State:
Degree Conferred and Major/Program:
Month and Year Degree conferred:


3.
Basic Licensure Requirement: Are you licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide your license/certification information.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
First Issued Date:
Expiration date:


Grade Level Requirements - In additional to the basic requirements above, the following grade criteria must be met. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


4.
Experience/Education Requirement: Do you possess at least four years of experience as a VA clinical social worker with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 grade level, and evidence of at least two years of supervisory and management experience? Note: Experience must demonstrate possession of advanced practice skills in administration, demonstrating professional competency, skills and judgment including knowledge of the VHA System and operations.
 Yes
 No


5.
Advanced Practice Licensure Requirement: Are you licensed or certified at the advanced practice level, and able to provide supervision for licensure?
 Yes
 No


5a.
Name on APL: 
APL Issuing state or territory:
Complete APL number:
Date APL was first issued:
Date APL expires:


6.
GS-15 ASWB Examination: Did you complete and pass the Association of Social Work Boards (ASWB) advanced generalist or clinical examination?
 Yes, I completed and passed the ASWB advanced generalist or clinical examination.
 No, my advanced practice license was grandfathered by the state in which I am licensed to practice at the advanced practice level (i.e., granted prior to the state administering the ASWB).
 I took the state of California (CA) exam and have a CA advanced practice license.
 I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation and covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No, A thru D do not apply to my advanced practice license.


7.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) Requirement: In addition to meeting the licensure and experience for the GS-15 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
 
Ability to lead a large group of clinical and administrative professionals to facilitate collaboration, and individual and organizational development.
Knowledge of Department Level communication protocols to effectively communicate the program specific information, including regulatory changes and policies to VHA leadership, VA staff and community partners.
Skill in advising high level officials in adoption of, and conformance to, performance measures, monitors, and other policy guidelines related to specific program areas; setting policy for national program(s) and directing VHA staff in the monitoring, assessment, and implementation of national program(s) throughout VHA.
Ability to develop education/training initiatives in concert with clinical and education officials; monitor key activities in program(s) and projects for timeliness, accomplishment of key milestones, and support of overall objectives outlined in directives and other publications of a specific program area.
Ability to develop and sustain strategic partnerships with key internal and external VA stakeholders and community partners on a national level.
Skill in providing technical consultation and support for various projects and special initiatives, including responses to Congressional inquiries; developing high level briefing papers to convey findings and VHA program positions.
Ability to develop and maintain national program databases to track program data and trends across VHA.
Ability to respond to inquiries from within the Department, the Administration, Congress, Office of Management and Budget, the Government Accountability Office, and others as appropriate.
 Yes, all of the KSAs are clearly reflected on my resume.
 No, I do not posses all of the KSAs required of the position.


RESUME REMINDER: Your experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month and year start/end dates AND hours worked per week. A full year of work is considered to be 35-40 hours of work per week. Part-time experience will be credited on the basis of time actually spent in appropriate activities. Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE.

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.

By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙