Position Title
Supervisory IT Cybersecurity Specialist (Security)
Agency
U.S. Marshals Service
Announcement Number
IMP-13028928-26-NZ Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former Department of Justice federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? To be eligible you must:
Meet the definition of 'surplus' or 'displaced' employee, as defined in 330.602;
Have a duty station in the local commuting area of the vacancy;
Have a performance rating of at least Fully Successful or equivalent;
Be applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you're being separated; and
Be applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you're being separated.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following:
RIF separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; 
Copy of your latest performance rating; and
Copy of your most recent SF-50: Notification of Personnel Action showing your position, grade and step, tenure code, and duty location.
See the Career Transition Assistance site on USAJOBS for more information about CTAP. 

Based on the above, are you eligible and would you like to be considered for selection priority under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position; and have you never held the full performance level of this position?

 -OR-
 
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level than the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed as a Department of Justice civilian employee in the competitive service that holds a career or career-conditional position at the same grade level as this position or higher with the same or higher promotion potential?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
 
Status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following best represents your most recent performance appraisal rating?
 I received a rating of record equivalent to at least "fully successful or higher".
 I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above.


2.
If you selected, "I do not meet any of the performance appraisal ratings as described above", please provide an explanation. If you provided a response of A above, please type N/A.


3.
Which of the following best represents your awards history? (Awards include superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increases and other equivalent awards.)
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above within the past 4 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 4 years ago for service, accomplishments or initiatives.
 I have not received any awards.


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes the experience that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position. Your resume MUST show that you possess the necessary experience in order to be found qualified.


1.
Applicants must have specialized experience in the amounts shown below to be considered for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the letter that best describes the highest level of experience you have and that demonstrates your ability to perform in this position. (Note: One year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour workweek. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week, you must prorate your experience).

 I have At least one year (12 months) of full-time specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service performing the following duties: 1) Providing technical advice, guidance, and assistance on critical IT security issues; 2) Managing a secure IT program consistent with organizational guidelines and standards; 3) Applying knowledge of the principles and methods to identify, analyze, specify, design, and manage secure enterprise requirements; 4) Preparing and maintaining detailed technical, project planning, and management documentation concerning computer security projects and the computer security portions of systems development projects. (NOTE: Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience.)
 I do not possess the specialized experience as listed above and do not qualify for this position.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes how you meet the basic requirements for the Information Technology (IT) Management Series 2210.

 I have Information Technology related experience demonstrating each of the following required competencies, and meet or exceed the minimum proficiency level for each: Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Decision Making, Information Management, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Problem Solving, Teamwork, Technical Competence. AND I also have Information Technology related experience demonstrating each of the following required Supervisory competencies, and meet or exceed the minimum proficiency level for each: Accountability, Customer Service, Decisiveness, Flexibility, Integrity/Honesty, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Problem Solving, Resilience, Written Communication. (You must support this experience in your resume.) See also the job announcement for definitions and further details on each competency listed and the minimum proficiency levels required.
 I do not fully meet the competency requirements outlined above but I am nonetheless demonstrably well qualified to perform the work of this position. I have appropriate licensure, registration, certification (such as PMP, ITIL, Agile, AWS, CompTIA A+, CompTIA Security, Microsoft Solutions Architect Expert, CISSP, Networking, AI Governance Professional). Must provide copies of licensure, registration, certification.
 I do not fully meet the competency requirements outlined above but I am nonetheless demonstrably well qualified to perform the work of this position. I have a substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrate eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field. Must provide examples such as published works, industry keynotes, peer research, awards, board memberships, etc.
 I do not have any of the Information Technology related experience described above and do not qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙