Position Title
a Registered Respiratory Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12903755-26-GGB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 06, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Citizen of the United States (U.S.). Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3,section A, paragraph 3g, of this part. See 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a) for more information.
Are you a citizen?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education. Individuals must have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor.
Do you meet the education requirements?


 Yes
 No


3.
Licensure. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a full, current and unrestricted license from a state to practice as an RRT.
Are you licensed?


 Yes
 No


4.
Credential. Persons appointed or reassigned to RRT positions in the GS-0601series must possess and maintain for the duration of employment a valid, current, unrestricted credential of RRT.
Do you possess the required credential?



 Yes
 No


(1) Exception. RT positions will be designated only to individuals who are in the process of obtaining credentials to become an RRT. These individuals will only be hired on a temporary appointment as provided below.
(a)VHA may waive the RRT credential requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified and pending completion of prerequisites for RRT credential. Individuals who have successfully completed a respiratory care program accredited by the CoARC or its successor, acquired the CRT credential, are fully licensed by their state and are working toward completion of their RRT credential may be given a temporary appointment as an RT. The temporary appointment is made under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7401(a)(1)(B) for a period not to exceed one year from date of employment. Candidates must hold an active, current, full and unrestricted RRT credential and be licensed to hold a position at or above the GS-07level.
(b) RTs may only be temporarily appointed at the GS-05 level and may not be promoted/converted to a higher-level position as an RRT until the RRT credential is received.
(c)RTs must provide care only under the close supervision of an RRT.
(d)Temporary RT appointments may not be extended beyond one year or converted to a new temporary appointment.

(e)Failure to Obtain Credential. In all cases, RTs must actively pursue meeting national prerequisites for the RRT credential from the first day of their appointment. Failure to become credentialed within one year from date of appointment will result in removal from the GS-0601 RT series and may result in termination of employment. The Human Resources (HR) Office staff will provide RTs, in writing, the requirement to 1) obtain their RRT credential; 2) the date by which the RRT credential must be acquired; and3)the consequences for not becoming RRT credentialed by the deadline. The HR Office staff must provide the written notice to selectees prior to entrance on duty date and maintain a copy in the electronic Official Personnel Folder.

(2) Loss of Licensure, Certification or Credentials. An employee in this occupation, who fails to maintain the required certifications, RRT credential or license must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in the termination of employment. Once credentialed, licensed or certified, RTs/RRTs must maintain a full, valid and unrestricted license, credential and certification to practice respiratory care.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
English Language Proficiency. RTs/RRTs appointed to direct patient-care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38U.S.C. § 7403(f).
Are you proficient in the required language?




 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
All individuals assigned to this occupation must meet all the basic qualification requirements above in paragraph 4 a-g and all basic qualification requirements defined in the specific assignment. All positions must be designated in one of the approved title or parenthetical title, as described below and duties must meet the definition of the assignment:

Registered Respiratory Therapist. Working titles, such as program coordinator, assistant chief, national program manager, etc., may be used at the organizational level to designate the work of the position.

GRADE DETERMINATIONS.
Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment in paragraph 3 above, all individuals referred and assigned to this occupation must meet all the qualification requirements and KSAs defined in the specific assignment as follows:



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-07.
Experience, Education, Licensure and Registration. In addition to the basic requirements, candidates must possess their RRT credential.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i. Ability to perform therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
ii. Skill in analyzing physiological specimens obtained to include arterial blood gases, pulse oximetry, End tidal Co2 (ETCo2) monitoring, basic spirometry and other basic diagnostic procedures.
iii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare
professionals for respiratory care to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
iv. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
v. Ability to perform basic airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.
Assignment. This is a developmental position. RRTs at this grade level will be responsible for the following assignments with minimal clinical supervision from an RRT at the full performance level in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. RRTs complete patient assessment through direct contact, chart review and other means as appropriate and share the information with health care team members. They use accepted measuring/monitoring tools for determining plan of care. They place nasal and oropharyngeal airway and perform nasal and tracheal suctioning. RRTs obtain, analyze and report arterial and venous blood gas samples. They perform duties in the critical area with close supervision to include in- line suctioning, re-positioning and securing Endo Tracheal tube, bag valve mask ventilation, assisting in patient transport and performing patient ventilator assessment. RRTs provide outpatient services, such as positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.

Do you meet the requirements for the GS-07?





 Yes
 No


7.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-09.
Experience or Education, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have:
i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level;
OR
ii. A Master of Science degree in respiratory care AND a license AND an RRT credential.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i. Skill in performing therapeutic modalities related to respiratory care.
ii. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to help provide favorable patient outcomes.
iii. Skill in assessing oxygenation and ventilation.
iv. Ability to perform airway management to include artificial airways and mechanical ventilation.
Assignments. This is a developmental position. RRTs at this grade level are responsible for the following under general guidance in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. RRTs obtain, interpret and analyze physiological specimens and data. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient through the use of appropriate mechanical means. RRTs assess and evaluate patients to determine and recommend intervention to develop and implement a plan of care, such as, implementing protocols, intubation, monitoring critical systems and uses advanced modes of ventilation. They provide outpatient services such as home ventilators, PAP therapy, oxygen therapy and COPD care.

Do you meet the requirements for the GS-09?




 
 Yes
 No


8.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11.
Experience, Licensure and Credential. Candidates must have:
i. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
ii. Hold an active license and RRT credential.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above, candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
i. Ability to collaboratively consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals for complex respiratory care to develop care plans to provide favorable patient outcomes.
ii. Skill in evaluating the efficacies of therapeutic modalities.
iii. Skill in performing advanced airway and ventilation management.
Assignments. This assignment is the full performance level. RRTs at this grade level work independently providing respiratory care in both inpatient and/or outpatient settings. The specific assignments are dependent on facility structure and complexity levels. They use data and patient assessment to establish appropriate plan of care and determine if outcomes are being met. They consult with physicians and other healthcare professionals to ensure quality of patient care within area of specialty. They manage and maintain the airway and ventilation of the patient using appropriate mechanical means. RRTs determine and implement complex respiratory care such as protocols, respiratory modalities, bronchoscopy, medications or supplemental oxygen and intubation. They monitor critical systems. They use advanced modes of ventilation and outpatient services, such as home ventilators and COPD case management. RRTs suggest alternate modes of treatment where indicated based on assessment and analysis of patient response to treatment. RRTs at this grade level may perform invasive procedures such as arterial line placement. They serve as a preceptor to lower graded staff. They may lead projects developing new policies, procedures or protocols.

Do you meet the requirements for the GS-11?







 Yes
 No


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, commit deception, or fraud in this application and its surrounding materials, or any document, or interview associated with the examination process, my eligibility may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No", or providing no response to this item, will result in my not being considered for this position.








 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙