Position Title
WAITER
Agency
Air Force Special Operations Command
Announcement Number
26-4QFSWC-984971 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse or unmarried child of a member (sponsor) of the U.S. Armed Forces or US Civilian employee (sponsor) of a U.S. Government Agency (including NAF activities who either: (a) have not passed their 21st birthday, (b) is incapable of self-support because of a mental or physical incapacity that existed before that birthday or (c) has not passes their 23rd birthday and is enrolled in a full-time course of study in an institution of higher learning? If claiming yes, please upload a copy of your sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders listing you by name.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a spouse of an active duty military member? A military spouse is defined as the wife or husband of an active duty member of the US Armed Forces, including the US Coast Guard and the full time National Guard or Reserves. For the purposes of this preference, the marriage must have occurred PRIOR to the service member's relocation via a Permanent Change of Station (PCS) move to the military sponsor's new duty station. If claiming yes, a copy of your Sponsor's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) Orders (along with proof of marriage if applicant's name does not appear on sponsor's orders) must be uploaded with your application to receive preference.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veteran?  If claiming yes, a copy of the DD 214 (member 4 or service 2 copy) or equivalent must be uploaded with your application to receive priority consideration.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Cannon AFB, NM
 B. Clovis, NM


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙