Position Title
Senior Economist
Agency
Consumer Product Safety Commission
Announcement Number
4100EC-26-20261745322 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Choose the answer that best describes your educational background.
 I possess a bachelor’s or graduate/higher level degree in economics that included at least 21 semester hours in economics and 3 semester hours in statistics, accounting, or calculus.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes coursework equivalent to a major in economics (as defined above) plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience as described above.


2.
GS-14 Choose the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13. Qualifying specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) The development of studies of the economic, financial, or other impacts of product safety standards or other regulatory or litigation actions; 2) the use of various research and analysis techniques when assessing economic or other data; and 3) service as a technical authority on economic or financial impacts or issues.
 I do not possess the experience as described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Which answer best describes your experience in applying quantitative analytical skills (e.g. mathematical modeling, statistical analysis) to economics problems.
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task, but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 This task has been a central or major part of my work. I have performed it myself routinely, and I have trained others in performance of this task and (or) others have consulted me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


2.
Please select the one response that best describes your highest level of participation on workgroups, committees, or teams.
 I have not had experience performing this task.
 I have regularly attended workgroup, committee, or team meetings.
 I have regularly contributed to workgroup, committee, or team discussions.
 I have worked with workgroup, committee, or team members to develop a product or recommend a strategy.
 I have led or chaired workgroups, committees, or teams.


3.
Please select the response that describes your experience in preparing analysis involving application of economic benefit cost and regulatory impact analyses.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it.
 I have performed this task with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task regularly, independently, and usually without close supervision.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


4.
Evaluate your knowledge of examining, analyzing, and interpreting economic theory and methodologies used for the estimation of the societal costs of injuries, the valuation of statistical lives, and the loss of quality of life.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it.
 I have performed this task with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task regularly, independently, and usually without close supervision.
 I have supervised performance of this task and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted by others as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


5.
Please select all options that describe your experience in writing economics papers, reports, or documents.
 A. I have written internal documents to inform others in my organization.
 B. I have written reports for an external client.
 C. I have written official reports for the public sector or a non-governmental organization.
 D. I have authored contributions to a working paper series or other non-peer-reviewed publications (e.g. book chapters, conference proceedings).
 E. I have authored peer-reviewed research papers (e.g. peer-reviewed journal articles).
 F. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙