Position Title
Supervisory Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
326-26-DM-12993843-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Chicago, IL
 B. Indianapolis, IN


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Program Specialist, GS-13 grade position, within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). We will evaluate your resume/application packet and your responses to this questionnaire to determine whether you are eligible and qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualification or dismissal from employment after acceptance.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the area of consideration requirement.


AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of VA and current/former Department of VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
From the choices below, please select the response that best represents your area of consideration eligibility for the Supervisory Program Specialist.
 I am currently employed by the Department of VA. This includes Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I was or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 Neither "A" nor "B" applies to me. Therefore, I am not eligible.


The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time-In-Grade requirement.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: To verify your time-in-grade eligibility, if you are a current or former federal employee, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade increase SF-50 Notice of Personnel Action. An award or general adjustment SF-50 may not be used to verify time-in-grade eligibility. You may need to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate your eligibility. The SF-50 must include your position title, series, grade, step, tenure (1 or 2), and type of service (Competitive or Excepted).


2.
From the choices below, please select the response that most accurately describes your time-in-grade eligibility for the Supervisory Program Specialist.
 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level or higher. I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within-grade increase SF-50. An award or general adjustment SF-50 may not be used to verify time-in-grade eligibility. NOTE: Some applicants may have to submit more than one SF-50 to demonstrate their eligibility.
 No, I do not have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level or higher. Therefore, I am not eligible.


The following section is used to determine your job-related experience background.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience. Select the response that best represents your experience for this position. Select only one response. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience or demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.


3.
From the choices below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for the Supervisory Program Specialist, GS-0301-13.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as applying and providing guidance on multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Labor Relations.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙