Position Title
FUL - Mason (Historic Preservation)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPS-26-13027716-DE-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 60 miles from the job announcement location.
Location: Fort Davis, Texas

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Mason, WG-3603-10 position with the National Park Service. Your responses to this questionnaire in conjunction with other portions of your completed application will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. You must SELECT ONLY ONE response for each item; items with more than one response or left blank will be scored lower or considered ineligible. This is a federal job application system. Providing false information or failing to answer all questions truthfully and completely may be grounds for not hiring, disbarment from federal employment or for dismissal after you begin work. Falsifying a federal job application, attempting to violate the privacy of others or attempting to compromise the operation of this system may be punishable by fine or imprisonment.


Ability To Do the Work of the Position Without More Than Normal Supervision (SCREEN OUT)


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes the highest level of experience that you possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position without more than normal supervision. Examples of experience include but not limited to: (1) repairing and maintaining historic masonry on historic trails, parapets, historic dry stone walls, historic wet stone walls, buildings, and boundary fences, chimneys, fireplaces, and manholes; (2) cutting and shaping stone, terra cotta, brick, and block; (3) removing portions of walls, partitions, or other similar structures and repair in kind, and for the installation of doors and windows; (4) reading and interpreting drawings, blueprints, and specifications independently; (5) mixing and matching mortars, mixing, pouring, and finishing concrete; patching and/or replacing stucco, including paper, wire, scratch, and brown coats, to match existing historic surfaces. Experience is required to be at the journeyman level.
 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Mason tasks and/or I have trained others at various types of work tasks.
 I am able to perform the full range of Mason work under limited supervision. My work is occasionally inspected and/or I have served as an occasional work/crew leader.
 I am able to perform common Mason tasks which are assigned to me under normal supervision. My work is inspected upon completion by my work leader or supervisor for conformance to requirements.
 I know little or nothing about the mason tasks above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙