Position Title
Technical Advisor
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13049823O-TSN-0301-11 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below: 

GS-11 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience must include:
Applying IRS functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations to evaluate program plans and determine impact of changes on program goals.
Utilizing cross functional programs such as EQSP and MEPS reports and their interrelationship with assigned program to conduct reviews, studies/projects and coordinate systems and resource utilization of program operations.
Applying analytical and evaluative methods in order to assess and measure effectiveness of program operations, identify gaps or conflicts in program information, consolidate findings and recommend alternatives.
Utilizing principles of management planning, program and process analysis, management reporting procedures and available system capabilities to resolve operating problems and providing statistical data or other management information reports.
Applying oral and written communications to conduct briefings, prepare reports, document findings and, disseminate procedural and regulatory information.
OR you may supplement specialized experience with a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
OR three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. in a related field.
OR LL.M., if related.
OR you may qualify with a combination of qualifying experience and education listed above.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
GS-11 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience includes:
Applying IRS functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations to evaluate program plans and determine impact of changes on program goals.
Utilizing cross functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned program to conduct reviews, studies/projects and coordinate systems and resource utilization of program operations.
Applying analytical and evaluative methods in order to assess and measure effectiveness of program operations, identify gaps or conflicts in program information, consolidate findings and recommend alternatives.
Utilizing principles of management planning, program and process analysis, management reporting procedures and available system capabilities to resolve operating problems and providing statistical data or other management information reports.
Applying oral and written communications to conduct briefings, prepare reports, document findings and, disseminate procedural and regulatory information. 
Utilizing cross functional systems and applications such as IRWorks, HR Connect and IORS to analyze, monitor and resolve program, performance and operational deficiencies.
OR you may supplement specialized experience with a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
OR three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. in a related field.
OR LL.M., if related. 
OR you may qualify with a combination of qualifying experience and education listed above.

Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in as described above.
 I have three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to doctoral degree as described above.
 I have an LL.M., if related.
 I have a combination of experience and graduate education equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above


2.
Which of the following best describes your experience making oral presentations and proposals?
 Worked on a team to complete this task
 Worked with a coworker to complete this task.
 Independently performed this task with direction from a supervisor or senior employee.
 Independently performed this task as a regular or semi-regular part of my job.
 None of the above


3.
Which statement best describes your experience in oral communication?
 A. Delivered formal presentations to various levels of workgroups and peers to inform them on technical information.
 B. Presented technical information to a special project team or work group (beyond my coworkers).
 C. Presented technical information to a supervisor or peer.
 D. Provided background information for others to present.
 E. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following documents have you written?
 A. Taxpayer correspondence
 B. SERP feedback and/or Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) (including co-authored)
 C. System requirements (e.g., Unified Work Request [UWR])
 D. Publications (including co-authored)
 E. Technical guidance (e.g., FAQ, Job Aids, training materials)
 F. Policy statements
 G. White papers (e.g., briefing papers, proposals, decision documents)
 H. Draft communications on behalf of a senior manager or an Executive (e.g., TIGTA, GAO, Most Serious Problems [MSP])
 I. None of the above


5.
Which of the following best describes your experience gathering financial data and organizing the results?
 I have worked on a team to complete this task.
 I have worked with a coworker to complete this task.
 I have independently performed this task with direction from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have independently performed this task as a regular or semi-regular part of my job.
 None of the above


6.
Which of the following describes your experience to obtain accurate information?
 A. Researched questions
 B. Crosschecked data using various sources
 C. Interpreted data from various sources
 D. None of the above


7.
Which of the following describes your experience analyzing data?
 A. Identified trends in program delivery
 B. Identified procedural problems
 C. Assessed compliance with existing guidelines
 D. Recognized and troubleshooted problems and error trends
 E. None of the above


8.
Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing data to measure effectiveness in meeting objectives and achieving strategic initiatives?
 I have worked on a team to complete this task.
 I have worked with a coworker to complete this task.
 I have independently performed this task with direction from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have independently performed this task as a regular or semi-regular part of my job.
 None of the above


9.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience resolving technical/procedural issues?

 Identified and elevated a technical/procedural issue for resolution
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented within the Business unit
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue, and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented across Business units (e.g., W & I, SBSE, LB & I, etc.)
 None of the above


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience working on projects?
 A. Served as a technical expert or team-member for a project
 B. Served as a coordinator of a process (e.g., statute coordinator)
 C. Served as sub-team lead of a project
 D. Managed a project
 E. Managed multiple projects simultaneously
 F. None of the above


11.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience in monitoring and/or determining FTE Resource Allocation in delivering operational work plans.
 Received information and guidance from others regarding FTE resource utilization
 Independently used staffing reports to monitor FTE resource utilization related to the operation work plan delivery
 Independently used staffing reports to monitor FTE resource utilization and project future FTE resource needs related to the operation work plan delivery
 None of the above


12.
Indicate your level of experience in keeping managers apprised of critical items.
 A. Led meetings with representatives across business units.
 B. Briefed management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 C. Briefed external/cross functional stakeholders (e.g., other federal or state agencies) on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 D. Briefed executives/senior management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above


13.
Which of the following sources of information have you used to identify trends impacting work processes?

 A. Information provided by external sources (e.g., other Business Units, other Federal agencies, private business, State or Local governments, Senate hearing)
 B. Quality review results
 C. Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
 D. Data reports (e.g., productivity, inventory, fraud)
 E. None of the above


14.
Which statement best describes your experience in a professional, high-energy environment where deadlines may be short and guidance minimal?
 Independently performed work under the general supervision of a higher-level employee where completion of projects is often under pressure of tight timeframes and changing conditions.
 Worked under the general supervision of a higher-level employee where completion of projects is sometimes under pressure of tight timeframes and changing conditions.
 Worked under the general supervision of a higher-level employee who provides general instructions as to objectives, priorities, and deadlines.
 None of the above


15.
Which of the following program/application review activities have you performed?
 Reviewed program/application processes or procedures to ensure compliance with established guidelines
 Reviewed program/application processes or procedures to ensure compliance with established guidelines and presented findings and recommended actions to program/application owner/director or operations representative
 Reviewed program/application processes or procedures to ensure compliance with established guidelines and presented findings and recommended actions to program/application owner/director or operations representative and collaborated with program/application owner/director or operations representatives to develop process improvements
 Conducted follow-up review of program/application to ensure adherence to recommendations
 None of the above


16.
Which of the following computer applications or programs have you used to complete your work?
 A. Share Point to manage projects (e.g., assign tasks, share documents)
 B. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS) to research cases or review reports
 C. Control D to locate reports and retrieve data
 D. Business Objects to retrieve data and generate reports
 E. Microsoft Outlook to send/receive email, schedule appointments, Live Meeting
 F. None of the above


17.
Which of the following Microsoft Excel functions have you used to complete assignments?
 A. Create simple formulas and columns
 B. Create/edit pivot tables
 C. Create advanced formulas
 D. Develop macros
 E. Perform statistical analysis using spreadsheet data
 F. Import/export data
 G. None of the above


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙