Position Title
Executive Operations Advisor
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12890530 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Mar 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current permanent Departmental Offices employee with competitive status.
 I am a Departmental Offices employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am an individual eligible for the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP).
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1. Specialized Experience for the GS-14, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
- Serving as a liaison for senior executives to support administrative and operational tasks in an organization; AND
- Developing strategies to address challenges and improve agency operations; AND
- Establishing and maintaining working relationships with high level officials, managers, employees and external stakeholders; AND
- Managing arrangements and schedules for events and engagements involving intra-agency or inter-agency stakeholders.



1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙