Position Title
Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12892344-26-MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to May 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Health Technician - Hearing Instrument Specialist GS-640 position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Health Technician (HIS) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience or Education: Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists
OR

Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas.

Select the appropriate answer based on your level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. 

Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.

NOTE: A transcript or documentation of the apprenticeship program MUST be submitted with your application.
 I completed the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists
 I have two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field
 I do not have the experience or education described above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Licensure or Registration: Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a HIS in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia.

Do you meet the licensure or registration requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide your license/registration information.
Name on License/Registration:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license/registration number:
Expiration date:


4.
Board Certification: Individuals must hold an active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).

NOTE: Non-board certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment not be extended beyond two years as a graduate Health Technician (HIS) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B). Non-board certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level GS-5 and may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.

Are you board certified in Hearing Instrument Sciences?
 Yes, I hold an active board certification (NBC-HIS)
 No, I am not board certified but I meet the exception and expect to become board certified within 2 years
 No, I do not meet the board certification requirements as described above


Grade Specific Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Health Technician (HIS) GS-5 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the basic requirements above, the candidate must also demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories.
Do you meet all the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


6.
Health Technician (HIS) GS-6 Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 level. The required specialized experience for the GS-5 level include, but are not limited to: performing non-diagnostic otoscopy including proper bracing techniques and making appropriate referrals for abnormalities and cerumen management; rechecking air-conduction pure tone threshold testing to assist the audiologist in modifying the treatment plan during hearing aid repair appointments; providing patient care in hearing aid repair appointments, consistent with the audiologist's treatment plan; completing visual and auditory checks with listening stethoscope of hearing aids prior to and following repair of device (troubleshoots performance); processing incoming devices from patients with concerns related to their hearing aids or hearing assistive technology; preparing and charging (if required) hearing aids and assistive devices for delivery; and receiving devices and restoring settings of hearing aid/hearing assistive technology after repair or replacement from manufacturer, such as Denver Logistics Center (DLC).

Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


7.
Health Technician (HIS) GS-6 Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene(cleaning and disinfection).
Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.
Do you meet all the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/ resignation SF-50. This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50. A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's.  Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.

LICENSE AND TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER- Please provide a copy of your official transcripts and licensure to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙