Position Title
Chief Information Officer (Director, Information Technology Management)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRM-JL-033 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current or former employee of a Base Facilities or Land Management agency?

For Land Management employees: You must meet all the following criteria to claim this eligibility. You must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act. 

You worked for a land management agency.
Your job was a term or temporary job in the competitive service.
You worked for a land management agency for more than 24 months - it doesn't have to be continuous, as long as there's no break of two or more years.
You received acceptable performance ratings throughout your term or temporary employment.
You did not leave your job due to misconduct or performance.

For Base Facilities Management employees: You must be on a time-limited (a term or temporary appointment) employee of a Defense Industrial Base Facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base, you must meet all of the following criteria to claim this eligibility. You will need to submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form. See Base Management on USAJOBS for more information.

You're a current or former employee of a Defense Industrial Base Facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base.
Your job is or was a time-limited appointment in the competitive service.
You were originally hired under open, competitive examination under Sub-chapter I of Chapter 33 of such title to the time-limited appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former NSEP award (Boren Scholarship, Boren Fellowship, etc.) award recipient with an unfulfilled service requirement?
All active recipients of NSEP awards are eligible for non-competitive hiring.

Your non-competitive eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the federal government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation.
When applying for a job, include your NSEP Letter of Certification or Service Agreement Report.



 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


5.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


6.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:
A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.
You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...
To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member meeting the conditions below?
You're eligible if you have at least one year of service with the Peace Corps or one year of service with AmeriCorps VISTA.
Your non-competitive eligibility lasts for one year after completing your Peace Corps or AmeriCorps service. Federal agencies may extend the period for up to three years if, after your completed service, you are:
In the military service.
Studying at a recognized institution of higher learning.
Involved in another activity, which in the agency's view, warrants an extension.
Your non-competitive eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the federal government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation.
When applying for a job, include your Peace Corps or AmeriCorps VISTA certification of service documents with your application and make sure to mention your non-competitive eligibility status on your resume. See National Service Organizations, Peace Corps & VISTA on USAJOBS for more information...

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


9.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


10.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998 (VEOA)?

VEOA is a special hiring authority, which gives eligible Veterans access to positions that otherwise may have only been available to current competitive service employees. In VEOA appointments, preference eligibles and Veterans are not given preference, but they are allowed to compete for job opportunities that are not offered to other external candidates. A VEOA eligible who is selected will be given a career or career-conditional appointment.
Eligibility  To verify your eligibility under VEOA you will need to submit appropriate supporting documentation that verifies your Veteran status, which may include a DD-214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty), an SF-15 (Application of 10-point Veterans Preference), or comparable documentation.

VEOA eligibility applies to the following categories of Veterans:
Preference eligibles
Service personnel separated after three or more years of continuous active service performed under honorable conditions.
Additional Resources
Feds Hire Vets - Special Hiring Authorities for Veterans
Frequently Asked Questions - Veterans (OPM)
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Applicants must meet one of the following conditions: (1) a current or former federal employee with competitive status, (2) a preference eligible or a separated service member with at least 3 years of continuous active duty service performed under honorable conditions, OR (3) eligible for noncompetitive appointment under the Schedule A Disability Hiring authority, 5 CFR 213.3102(u) or other special authorities including former Peace Corps volunteers. Do you meet one of the conditions above?

 Yes, I meet one of the conditions described above.
 No, I do not meet one of the conditions described above.


2.
To qualify for the GS-15 level, applicants must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level. Examples of specialized experience include: directing enterprise-scale IT programs involving the planning, development, integration, and modernization of major systems or services across a dispersed workforce; leading enterprise architecture, systems engineering or development, cybersecurity, or infrastructure at a strategic level; managing major IT acquisitions such as negotiating complex technical requirements and ensuring performance and deliverables; and driving policy, governance, and modernization decisions that shape organizational-wide technology outcomes.
 
Do you meet the specialized experience requirements described above?
 Yes; I meet the specialized experience requirements described above.
 No; I do not meet the specialized experience requirements described above.


3.
To qualify for this position, applicants must demonstrate an advanced level of proficiency in the following competencies. Advanced proficiency is defined as applying the competency in considerably difficult situations and generally requires little to no guidance.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change.
Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems.
Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.
 I possess advanced proficiency in all of the competencies described above and it is evidenced in my resume.
 I do not possess advanced proficiency in all of the competencies listed above.


4.
To qualify for this position, applicants must demonstrate an expert level of proficiency in the following competencies. Expert proficiency is defined as applying the competency is exceptionally difficult situations and serving as a key resources and advising others.
Problem Solving: Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Technical Competence: Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.
 I posses expert level proficiency in all the competencies listed above and this is evidenced in my resume.
 I do not possess expert level proficiency in all competencies listed above.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.


5.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify or inflate your responses may be grounds for not referring you. Please take this opportunity to review your rating to ensure the accuracy of your answers and that they are supported by your resume. Failure to agree to this statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes; I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No; I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙