Position Title
Investigative Analyst
Agency
U.S. Agency for International Development
Announcement Number
OIG-26-DE-12913372-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:

• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

 For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources:  https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who: 

• Is on Active Duty for more than 180 days other than for training?

-OR-

Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who has a disability rating of 100 percent due to injury while on active duty?

-OR-

Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

To verify your eligibility: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility which may include:
documentation to support active duty service for more than 180 consecutive days (current military orders/statement of service)
verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);
verification of the member's 100 percent disability; (VA Letter AND the service members DD-214) and/or;
verification of the member's death while on active duty. (DD-1300)


Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form. To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


5.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of a disability letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist or any federal, state or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Investigative Analyst, GS-1805-13 position with the U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Inspector General (OIG). We will evaluate your resume to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
GS-13 equivalent: Choose one answer that best describes your experience.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service performing work related to the duties of the position described in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failing to select a response will result in your application packet being removed from consideration.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙