Position Title
SUPERVISORY CONTRACT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-12926736-AR-T5-026-006 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor's Degree from an accredited educational institution authorized to grant baccalaureate degrees?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess Level 1, DAWIA Professional Certification OR Federal Acquisition Certification in Contracting (FAC-C) (Level I - Professional) equivalent?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess one year of specialized contracting experience at the GS-12 level that required a working knowledge of a wide variety of contracting methods and contract types sufficient to perform pre-award/post-award and/or contract price/cost analysis?
 Yes
 No


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Experience performing acquisition planning; contract price and cost analysis/cost accounting techniques, comprehensive negotiation techniques and a working knowledge of statutes and regulations as they apply to procurement functions.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙