Position Title
Criminal Investigator - Central Area Field Office (CAFO)
Agency
Office of the Inspector General, USPS
Announcement Number
EX-23-147B-13029504-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current employee of a federal agency which is covered under the Excepted Service?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former career federal employee with competitive status?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:

• Served three (3) or more years of continuous active-duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a three (3) year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
• Are entitled to Veterans' Preference? If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. (Show USAJOBS Veterans resources as hyperlink with https://www.usajobs.gov/Veterans)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
INSTRUCTIONS: USPS OIG officials may not appoint any of their relatives or recommend them for appointment in the OIG. Any relative who is appointed in violation of this restriction cannot be paid. Thus it is necessary to have information about your relatives who are working for the USPS OIG. These include: mother, father, daughter, son, sister, brother, aunt, uncle, first cousin, niece, nephew, wife, husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepdaughter, stepson, stepsister, stepbrother, half-sister, and half-brother.

Does the US Postal Service or the USPS Office of Inspector General employ any relative of yours by blood or marriage?  If you answer "Yes" to this question, provide the following information for such relatives: (1) Full name; (2) Present address and ZIP Code; (3) Relationship; (4) Position title; (5) Name and location of USPS OIG installation where employed.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please list relatives, if applicable.


4.
How did you hear about this vacancy announcement? Please select the appropriate category.
 USPS OIG website (uspsoig.gov)
 LinkedIn.com Job Posting
 Searched USAJobs.gov
 Referral - Current USPS OIG Employee
 Referral - Friend or Co-worker
 Handshake (University Career Portal)
 Association Website or Publication
 Other.


5.
Please list other sources, if applicable.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility Requirement - Competitive Service, Excepted Service, & Veterans Only 

 
This announcement is open externally to Status Candidates (Merit Promotion and VEOA Eligibles). You must submit eligibility documentation.

All others will be deemed ineligible on this announcement. 
 
Internal Employees: You are ineligible for this announcement and must apply to announcement #: 13029503
 I am a current or former federal employee with status in Competitive Service. I will submit my SF-50 to confirm eligibility with my application
 I am a current or former federal employee with status in Excepted Service. I will submit my SF-50 to confirm eligibility with my application
 I am a U.S. Veteran and will submit my DD-214 to confirm eligibility with my application
 I do not meet the eligibility requirements for this announcement


2.
Education Requirement


The Criminal Investigator (1811) requires a bachelor's degree.


Select the one option that best describes how you meet the basic education qualification requirement for this position.
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and will submit my transcript if requested for verification.
 I do not meet the education requirements described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) Requirement


The Criminal Investigator position requires completion of the Basic Criminal Investigative Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) or equivalent program.

Do you meet the FLETC certification requirement?

You may be asked to provide documentation for verification during the hiring process.
 Yes
 No


4.
Current Federal Law Enforcement Experience Requirement


This announcement requires current 1811 series Criminal Investigator experience at or above the GS-11 level or equivalent.


Do you meet the GS equivalency or higher in your current position as an 1811 Criminal Investigator?

You must submit your most recent PS-50 with your application.
 Yes
 No


5.
Specialized Criminal Investigation Experience Requirement


This position requires demonstrated experience assisting, planning, conducting and/or leading complex criminal investigations.


Choose the best response in how you meet the above requirement.
 I have specialized experience assisting, planning, conducting and/or leading complex criminal investigations. My submitted resume will reflect when and where I gained this experience.
 I do not have the required specialized experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Performance Appraisal Requirement


This position requires at least an acceptable or satisfactory rating of "met expectation" on your two (2) most recent performance appraisals.

Did you receive at least an acceptable or satisfactory rating on your most recent performance appraisals?

Please Note: You must submit copies of your latest 2 performance appraisals (FY 2024 and FY 2025).
 Yes
 No


7.
Certification of Accuracy:


Your responses to this questionnaire will be reviewed and verified during the selection process. Providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification or removal from employment.

Please review your responses carefully and select the option below that best reflects your certification of accuracy.

Note: Failure to certify will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 I certify that all responses in this questionnaire are true, complete, and made in good faith. I understand that if my responses are not supported by documentation or later steps in the process, my rating may be adjusted or I may be removed from consideration.
 I do not certify the accuracy of my responses and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙