Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Immediate Office of the Assistant Secretary for Management
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12954394-26-LW-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action (if applicable for Time in Grade and/or Eligibility):
Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee
An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade
Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


Time-in-Grade Requirement- Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-12 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-12 grade level of this position OR must have held grade GS-13 or higher for at least one year to be eligible for the GS-13 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation. Provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to indicate your current federal status. You must also submit additional SF-50(s) to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade as required in the announcement. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one year time-in-grade. In this instance, you should provide an additional SF-50 to clearly demonstrate one year time-in-grade.


1.
Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 level or higher or I am a GS-13.
 This restriction does not apply to me because I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or I am seeking a non-competitive appointment such as Schedule A, or 30% or more disabled veteran appointment.
 This restriction applies to me, and I do not meet the requirements.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application (Unofficial or Official).


Individual Occupation Requirements (IOR): This position includes an Individual Occupation Requirement. Applicants who do not meet it are ineligible for further consideration. Evidence of the Individual Occupation Requirements must be reflected in your application packet (transcript/resume). BASIC REQUIREMENTS ALL GRADES (IOR): A degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.") OR COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: A combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following: Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?


2.
Please choose the appropriate response in reference to your qualifications and the Individual Occupation Requirement of this position.
 I have a degree in accounting or a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes a certificate as a Certified Public Accounting or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that included at least four (4) years of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that included completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours; provided that you can demonstrate that you have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, and/or have the education, training, and experience that fully meets the specified requirements as described above.
 None of the above.


Resume Reminder - Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Name, Contact Information, Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: In addition to meeting basic requirements, to be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes: 
Leading and conducting complex internal control evaluations and risk-based audits/reviews under OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A, or similar internal control frameworks.
Developing written products that assess the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls, including analyzing deficiencies and recommending improvements.
Advising management on internal control requirements, compliance, and financial standards.


3.
Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


Job Experience Assessment 


4.
Please choose statement(s) from the list below that best describes your Auditing experience and/or training.  Please only select responses that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Analyze data, reports, and documentation to identify discrepancies, trends, and high-risk transactions
 B. Prepare and conduct tests of control effectiveness and document audit results in test sheets and workpapers
 C. Identify deficiencies and assess root cause, severity and impact
 D. Develop risk-based audit plan and identify potential audit areas.
 F. None of the above
 E. Track, monitor and validate mitigation of internal and external audit findings


5.
Please choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience solving problems in complex situations.  Please only select responses that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Develop and determine objectives and methods of financial audits by gathering information about the program or activity scheduled for audit
 B. Develop auditing techniques, including new approaches, to evaluate financial or financial-related programs and systems for agencies or organizations with complex, nationwide processes and procedures
 C. Assess compliance with laws, rules, policies and procedures and provide recommendations to improve quality and oversight of work processes.
 F. None of the above
 D. Translate complex financial, operational, or regulatory information into understandable written materials
 E. Reconcile and audit accounts for a full range of assets, liabilities, income, expenses, cost accounting, and budget.


6.
Please choose the statement from the list below that best describes your communication background. Please only select responses that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience: (Select all that apply)
 A. Briefed supervisors or managers on accounting issues
 B. Presented financial results and/or findings to senior leadership
 C. Communicated audit findings, recommendations, or compliance requirements
 D. Delivered training on accounting processes or standards
 E. Represented my office in interagency or cross-functional meetings
 G. None of the above
 F. Led and/or facilitated audit walkthroughs of key business processes to identify control points and areas of weakness


7.
Which of the following statements reflect your internal control experience that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Develop tools, guidebooks, and provide other essential assistance for Department entities to conduct assessments of internal controls in accordance with OMB Circular A-123 and the GAO Green Book
 B. Examine and evaluate financial management processes and information systems to validate the effectiveness of the controls in place to prevent or detect errors
 C. Perform internal control reviews to ensure compliance with Federal standards, regulations, and internal policies
 F. None of the above
 D. Assess risk in order to identify related internal control objectives (accuracy, completeness, validity)
 E. Assess the design and operating effectiveness of internal controls, including development of test procedures and identification of control design gaps


8.
Select the statement that best describes your experience applying federal financial regulations(e.g., OMB Circulars) that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Analyze and/or audit data, reports, and/or processes to validate compliance and provide advice and recommendations for improvement to agency leadership
 B. Research pertinent laws, policies, and procedures used to administer one or more complex projects.
 C. Served as an internal consultant to management on specific programs to implement new systems and reinforce new practices and processes.
 D. Provided recommendations and guidance to managers to ensure current and proposed changes meet requirements
 F. None of the above
 E. Researched and analyzed new or proposed legislation or regulations to determine impact on current processes


9.
Select the statement that best describes your experience applying Analytical reasoning that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Analyze trends or anomalies of transactions and determine their significance ad potential risk
 B. Perform studies and reports for special projects as directed.
 F. None of the above
 C. Analyze financial information and data for strategic recommendations
 D. Interpret available guidance for internal and external stakeholders at the same or subordinate levels
 E. Experience in analyzing accounting systems and adapting analytical techniques to solve a variety of accounting problems.


10.
Select all statements that accurately reflect your professional Accounting experience that you can personally verify through your work history, training, or direct experience. (Select all that apply)
 A. Utilize professional accounting and auditing knowledge to provide advice on accounting and operational issues.
 B. Prepare reconciliations, analyses, and other financial reports.
 C. Provide analyses and recommendations on financial matters to personnel, program officials and managers
 F. None of the above
 D. Experience with various accounting concepts that must be applied to varying accounting situations and transactions to ensure the accuracy and completeness of accounting
 E. Practice in theories, methods, and techniques of accounting, organizational or program practices, policies, and functions sufficient to independently plan and conduct variety of assignments and analyze accounting systems


The following is a Certification of Understanding. RESPONSE TO THIS STATEMENT IS MANDATORY. Please note, if you do not answer this question, it will result in not being considered for this position.


11.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙