Position Title
Policy Analyst
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-13068481-26-SM-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a permanent Federal employee (Career or Career-Conditional) assigned to a component within the Executive Office of the President (EOP) seeking a reassignment or promotion under Merit Promotion procedures?

If yes, confirm: Your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflects career or career-conditional status (Block 24 is a "1" or "2") AND the position is in the competitive service (Block 34 is a "1").

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a legible copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action. If you have previously held a higher grade, or if your position has a higher full performance level, please ensure you submit all relevant SF-50s (such as your initial promotion or appointment form) to support your prior grades and time-in-grade requirements. We cannot accept Award SF-50s (e.g., cash or performance awards). All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.


 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies within the Executive Office of the President who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0301-11, Policy Analyst.

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
**If utilizing education as part of your qualifying experience/education, you must submit copies of your degree/transcripts in order to receive credit.  Failure to submit your transcripts will result in your application being incomplete and it will not receive further consideration.  Transcripts are required if you are utilizing your education as part of your qualifications.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that demonstrates the following: 1) Reviewing or coordinating on policies, legislation, or initiatives to understand privacy implications; AND 2) Applying privacy laws (e.g., Privacy Act of 1974, E-Government Act of 2002, Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014) or privacy policies to organizational actions.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or a LL.M. that is related to the position being filled.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience. The percentage of the required education plus the percentage of the required experience must equal one hundred percent of the specialized experience requirement.
 I do not have the experience, education, or combination of graduate level education and experience as described above.


2.
Please select one response which best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0301-12, Policy Analyst.

NOTE: The information in your resume must support this in order to be considered for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector, that demonstrates the following: 1) Reviewing or coordinating on policies, legislation, or initiatives to understand privacy implications and taking steps to address them; and (2) Applying privacy laws (e.g., Privacy Act of 1974, E-Government Act of 2002, Federal Information Security Modernization Act of 2014) or privacy policies to organizational actions.
 I do not have all of the specialized experience as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position. 

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙