Position Title
Logistics Management Specialist
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAEnergy-26-12957024-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
• retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15((SF-15 (PDF file)).  .

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review https://help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/individuals-with-disabilities
 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


9.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


11.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Do you have a current (or last) performance rating of at least Fully Successful or the equivalent?
 Yes. I am a current Federal employee or have been within the previous 52 weeks and my most recent performance rating of record is at or above the Fully Successful or equivalent level.
 I am a current Federal employee but have not yet received a Federal performance rating.
 I am not a current Federal employee or have not been during the previous 52 weeks, therefore I do not possess a Federal performance rating.
 No. My performance rating is below the Fully Successful or equivalent.


3.
Have you received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) in the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Organizes, leads, directs, and coordinates highly technical quantitative and qualitative studies and analysis, resolves shortfalls, limitations, and other conditions impacting fuel logistics, advising higher leadership of concerns, solutions, and revisions made in regard to logistics and program performance, and ensures petroleum stock remains replenished through coordination of invoice payments and stock alignment.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to respond to all questions may result in your disqualification for this position.


2.
When commissioning a new, highly technical study to compare two competing communications systems, which of the following instructions to the research team best demonstrates a comprehensive analytical approach?

 Conduct a qualitative study based on interviews with operators about which user interface they prefer.
 Design a mixed-methods study. Quantify performance metrics under controlled network conditions, but also run qualitative focus groups with operators after a simulated, high-stress field exercise to assess usability, cognitive load, and trust.
 Focus solely on a quantitative analysis of bandwidth, latency, and signal-to-noise ratio. Give me the system with the best numbers.
 Just tell me which system is cheaper. The most important factor is the per-unit cost


3.
During a real-world operation, a cyberattack disrupts the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems of a local utility that powers a critical command and control facility. Power is lost. The facility's backup generators kick in, but they have a limited fuel supply. Which piece of information would be MOST critical for your immediate analysis to provide to the commander?

 A detailed report on the specific malware used in the cyberattack.
 The total number of personnel affected by the power outage at the facility.
 A list of other nearby commercial facilities that were also affected by the utility outage.
 An immediate estimate of the time required to restore the commercial grid versus the "hours-to-empty" calculation for the on-site backup generators, based on their current fuel levels and consumption rate.


4.
While reviewing monthly performance metrics for your region, you notice that the "Order Fulfillment Rate" for packed petroleum, oils, and lubricants (POL) has dropped from 98% to 85%. What is the best initial analytical step to determine the impact on your supported units?

 Cross-reference the detailed fulfillment data (if available) against the specific pending orders for your units to identify which critical items (e.g., specific hydraulic fluids, engine oils) are backordered and which units will be affected first.
 Immediately send an alert to all supported units warning them of a critical POL shortage and advising them to ration supplies.
 Disregard the metric, as a 15% drop is likely a statistical anomaly that will correct itself the following month.
 File a high-priority request for an explanation from the DLA Energy commander.


5.
Your analysis shows that on-hand fuel reserves for a critical forward operating location are at "10 Days of Supply." How should you articulate this metric in a daily update to the USINDOPACOM J3 (Operations) staff?

 "The forward location has 10 Days of Supply of F-24 remaining."
 “The inventory level at the forward location has reached the 10-day mark, and a replenishment order has been automatically triggered per protocol."
 "We have a potential fuel shortfall at the forward location. The inventory status is RED."
 "Based on current consumption rates, the forward location can sustain its planned operational tempo for the next 10 days before requiring replenishment. All currently scheduled missions are supportable."


6.
You learn that a host nation government has unexpectedly decided to close a major highway for a week-long national holiday. This highway is the primary ground route for fuel trucks supplying a USINDOPACOM-aligned airbase. What is the most effective initial coordination action?

 Wait until the base commander reports a fuel shortage before notifying the USINDOPACOM staff.
 Immediately coordinate with the J2 (Intelligence) to confirm the report and with the J4 (Logistics) to determine the feasibility of using alternate routes or pre-stocking the base before the closure begins.
 Send a general email to all J-codes stating that ground transportation will be impacted in the host nation.
 File a formal complaint with the Department of State regarding the host nation's uncoordinated highway closure.


7.
During a formal update to the Commander and his senior staff, you project a slide showing global fuel reserve levels. The Commander interrupts and asks, "I see a lot of numbers. Just tell me, are we ready?" How should you respond?

 "Commander, in aggregate, our global posture is GREEN. All currently assigned missions are fully supportable, and we have the required reserves to execute our primary contingency plans."
 "Commander, this slide shows the on-hand inventory in barrels for each Defense Fuel Support Point, broken down by product type, compared to the required war reserve levels..."
 "Commander, readiness is a complex issue with many factors, and fuel is only one part of the overall equation for the command."
 “Yes Commander, we are ready. The agency energy enterprise is postured to meet all requirements."


8.
USINDOPACOM has just published a new contingency plan that, while operationally sound, relies on a support concept from your agency that is logistically unfeasible (e.g., assuming a pipeline can be built in 30 days). What is the most effective way to advise the agency Director?

 "Director, we need to inform USINDOPACOM that DLA Energy formally refuses to support this OPLAN as written."
 "Director, USINDOPACOM's new OPLAN is logistically impossible. They have failed to conduct proper joint planning."
 "Director, I advise you to engage the USINDOPACOM Commander directly. Their new OPLAN contains a critical feasibility shortfall. Specifically, their concept of operations requires a support timeline that is not achievable with current resources or physics. We should present two alternative, executable support concepts for their consideration."
 "Director, we should begin investing in new technologies immediately so that we can meet the requirements of this new OPLAN in the future."


9.
A DoD operational plan requires a surge of 5 million gallons of F-76 marine diesel to be delivered to a port in the Western Pacific within 15 days. Your agency's commercial suppliers indicate they cannot meet this timeline, citing "refinery production slate limitations." What does this industry limitation mean?

 The suppliers are refusing to sell fuel to the DoD for political reasons.
 The suppliers' refineries lack the physical storage capacity for 5 million gallons of F-76.
 The suppliers are demanding a higher price for the fuel before they agree to produce it.
 Refineries produce a wide variety of fuels from a barrel of crude oil. They cannot simply decide to produce only F-76; it must be planned as part of a complex production cycle weeks in advance. A sudden, large order disrupts this entire economic and physical process.


10.
When reviewing the annual stock rotation plan for a major naval fuel depot, you notice that a specific tank of F-76has been designated as "frozen stock" and has not been touched for five years. Why would an overseer question this designation?

 Because F-76 has a very short shelf life and is likely completely unusable after five years.
 Because fuel is a financial asset, and frozen stock represents a poor return on investment for the agency.
 Because even long-lasting fuels require periodic quality surveillance and testing. Leaving stock completely "frozen" increases the risk of discovering a major quality issue only when the fuel is finally needed in a crisis.
 Because the tank could be used to store a different, more urgently needed product.


11.
A shipment of fuel is received at a base, and the invoice is paid. Days later, the inventory manager discovers the fuel was accidentally entered into the accounting system twice, creating a significant "paper" overage. The base's on-hand inventory now appears artificially high, and the system shows no need for replenishment. What is the best approach to correct this?

 To work with the base inventory manager and potentially the system administrators to process a formal inventory adjustment, providing documentation to prove the erroneous entry, in order to align the book inventory with the physical reality and accurately reflect the need for replenishment.
 To take no action, as the inflated inventory number makes the base appear more ready than it is.
 To direct the base to sell the "paper" overage to another nearby base to make a profit.
 To coordinate a payment reversal with DFAS, since the fuel was double-counted.


12.
The "Inventory Status" report for a base shows that 30% of its on-hand fuel is categorized as "restricted" or "suspended" pending quality tests. While the base's total fuel volume is high, its "Available for Issue" inventory is near zero. Which other metric would be most immediately impacted by this situation?

 Transportation Costs.
 Quality of Support.
 Customer Satisfaction.
 Timeliness of Documentation.


13.
How do the specific funding authorities allocated to the Pacific Deterrence Initiative (PDI) under the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) most directly translate into actionable strategic guidance for countering adversary coercion in the Indo-Pacific?

 By mandating the immediate withdrawal of forward-deployed forces to centralized domestic hubs to reduce regional friction and reliance on vulnerable supply lines.
 By exclusively funding diplomatic and economic aid packages while explicitly prohibiting military posture enhancements and kinetic capability development.
 By reallocating all European Defense Initiative (EDI) funds toward the establishment of bilateral, non-military trade agreements with Southeast Asian nations.
 By prioritizing targeted investments in resilient and distributed force posture, advanced missile defense systems, and joint multinational exercises to enhance interoperability with regional allies.


14.
In the context of the National Defense Strategy (NDS), how do shifting geopolitical alliances, economic dependencies, and territorial disputes in the Indo-Pacific primarily dictate adjustments to U.S. theater campaign plans and bilateral military engagements?

 By shifting the focus of campaign plans entirely toward domestic defense and pausing all bilateral military engagements until regional territorial disputes are fully resolved through diplomatic channels.
 By requiring a transition toward more flexible, distributed basing arrangements (such as Agile Combat Employment) and prioritizing capacity-building engagements that enhance allied interoperability and resilience against economic coercion.
 By mandating unilateral military interventions in all territorial disputes and establishing permanent, large-scale U.S. military installations in non-allied nations to force economic compliance.
 By dissolving existing bilateral security treaties in favor of replacing military engagements entirely with standardized, region-wide economic trade models managed exclusively by international civilian bodies.


15.
Which of the following best describes the interrelationship between legislative mandates (such as the NDAA),executive strategic guidance, and regional geopolitical realities in simultaneously constraining and enabling U.S. operational flexibility against gray-zone activities in the South China Sea or Taiwan Strait?

 The NDAA establishes specific legal authorities and funding parameters (constraining resource allocation while enabling capability), executive guidance dictates risk tolerance and strategic objectives, and geopolitical realities shape allied cooperation and escalation risks—requiring calibrated, multi-domain responses.
 Legislative mandates strictly prohibit U.S. military involvement in gray-zone activities, forcing the executive branch to rely entirely on diplomatic protests while regional geopolitical realities prevent any allied cooperation.
 The NDAA provides unlimited discretionary funding for all combatant commands, allowing executive guidance to bypass regional geopolitical realities and mandate immediate, unilateral kinetic strikes against any gray-zone incursions.
 Regional geopolitical realities legally override both the NDAA and executive strategic guidance, giving partner nations in the Indo-Pacific unilateral command over U.S. operational flexibility and troop deployments during gray-zone crises.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙