Position Title
Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) - Honor VA Clinic Kansas City MO
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSS-13016855-26-SH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 28, 2026 to Aug 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) position with the Kansas City VA Medical Center. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about basic requirements and minimum qualifications for this position. Please select the answer that best describes you. Your application package must support your answers.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) incumbents must be proficient in both spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, VA Handbook 5005 Part II, Appendix G50. Please select the answer below that best describes you.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education or Experience- To meet the basic experience and/or education requirements for the Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) position, you must have:
Experience. One year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical  clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician. OR
Education. Four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation. OR
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Examples are listed below:
         (a) Six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science surgical technician courses, nursing assistant or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field; OR
         (b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for healthcare technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialists given by the U.S. Armed Forces.


Select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have one year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates my ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical or clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician.
 I have completed four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to this occupation.
 I have equivalent combination of experience and education such as six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science, surgical technician courses, nursing assistant or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field; OR six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialists given by the U.S. Armed Forces.
 None of the above.


Minimum Requirement for GS-5 Level


3.
Experience or Education: Basic requirements for a GS- 5 Entry Level

To meet the basic experience and/or education requirements for the Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) position, you must have:
Experience. One year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical  clinical assistant (or technician) or health technician. OR
Education. Four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation. OR
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Examples are listed below:
         (a) Six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as, biological science, surgical technician courses, nursing assistant or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field; or
         (b) Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for healthcare technicians, hospital corpsmen, or medical service specialists given by the U.S. Armed Forces.


Select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-4) in the Federal Service that has given me the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to successfully perform the duties of the Health Technician.
 I have successfully completed a full four (4) year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree.
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed post-high school education (beyond the second year) and specialized experience, as described above, which meet the total qualification requirements for this grade level. This education must have been obtained at an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college, or university. NOTE: Your experience must be documented in your resume and transcripts are required.
 None of the above.


Minimum Requirement for GS-6 Level


4.
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, the GS-06 Heath Technician (Telehealth Clinical) must have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-05 level. AND You must also demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Comprehensive knowledge of computer systems and programs to perform a variety of tasks.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the healthcare team, external relations, customer service and patient education.
Ability to provide and receive guidance and technical direction.
Ability to plan, organize, set priorities, work as a team member, and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Knowledge of general clinical policies and procedures in a healthcare environment.
Skilled in the use of telehealth technologies for the facilitation of telehealth clinical encounters.


Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?
 I meet the requirements as stated above for the GS-06 Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) position.
 I do NOT meet the grade level requirements for this position.


Minimum Requirement for GS-7 Level


5.
Experience: In addition to the basic requirements, the GS-07 Advanced Heath Technician (Telehealth Clinical) must have one year of experience equivalent to the GS-06 level. AND You must also demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze, evaluate and resolve problems..
Knowledge of quality control and assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement..
Ability to function effectively between competing priorities.
Knowledge of proper maintenance and troubleshooting of telehealth equipment.
Ability to work with a team to provide technical guidance, plan, organize and coordinate activities of a health technician in order to effectively complete job duties of assignment such as distributing workload, monitoring the status and progress of work, monitoring accuracy of work.
Ability to assist in Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) development, outcome management and strategic planning.
Ability to perform successful knowledge transfer regarding the use of telehealth technologies.


Do you meet the experience requirements as described above?
 I meet the requirements as stated above for the GS-07 Health Technician (Telehealth Clinical) (Advanced) position.
 I do NOT meet the grade level requirements for this position.


To apply for this position, you must provide a complete Application Package which includes:
Resume (required) - Resume must include the following information for each job listed: job title, duties, start and end dates, full time or part time status (include hours worked per week). Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
Transcript (if applicable) - Transcript must include the following information to be considered acceptable: student's name, college/ university name, degree obtained, and date degree conferred. Diplomas will not be accepted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙