Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Liberty Program)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13038960 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Assistant  position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Describe your experience in Point of Sales (POS) - cash handling/credit card transactions
 3+ years of documented experience
 1 – 3 years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience but the ability to learn


2.
Describe your experience in customer service
 3+ years ofdocumented experience
 1 – 3 years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience but the ability learn


3.
Knowledge of computer, office procedures and/or print production
 3+ years of documented experience
 1 to 3 years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience but the ability to learn


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙