Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
FWS-R7-13026591-26-LL-AKLH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

This position is being filled under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority. The ANILCA local hiring authority allows federal land management agencies to give selection preference to eligible local applicants for qualifying jobs. 
 

Do you meet the eligibility requirements for selection preference under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) local hiring authority? 


To be eligible, you must: 

Have lived or worked in or near Alaska Public Lands as outlined in the job announcement. 
Possess special natural or cultural resource knowledge of the area. 


Your application package or resume must clearly document how you meet these requirements. 

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are eligible for this position. Please Note: Applicants must provide sufficient information and detail to demonstrate they possess the special knowledge or expertise required under Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Failure to provide adequate information will result in a determination of ineligibility. This ANILCA vacancy announcement is to fill Maintenance Mechanic, WG-4749-09 positions in the excepted service under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) hiring authority, Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Eligibility for the position under this hiring authority is determined by your special knowledge of the natural and/or cultural resources of the Alaska public lands and management thereof, by having lived and/or worked in or near Alaska public lands.


1.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your ability to meet the special knowledge or expertise requirements for positions filled through this ANILCA vacancy announcement.

 I have special knowledge or expertise concerning the cultural and/or natural resources of Alaska public lands.
 I do not have the special knowledge or expertise described above.


You must possess special knowledge or expertise of Alaska public lands natural and/or cultural resources and the management thereof. Your responses to the following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for positions filled through this ANILCA vacancy announcement. Please Note: Applicants must provide sufficient information to demonstrate they have lived and/or worked in or near Alaska public lands required under Public Law 96-487 and 16 U.S.C. 3198. Failure to provide adequate information will result in a determination of ineligibility.


2.
Have you lived and/or worked in or near the public lands in Alaska?

 Yes, I have lived and/or worked in or near the public lands of Alaska.
 No, I have not lived and/or worked in or near the public lands of Alaska.


3.
If you answered yes to the question above, you must provide the name of the city/town/village along with the start and end dates of each period you lived or worked in that area. If you lived in multiple cities/towns/villages, list the start and end dates separately for each location. Example: Tok, AK, 05/2022 - 02/2024; Tetlin, AK, 05/2024 - 01/2025.



4.
How would you describe the type of natural/cultural resources knowledge and expertise you have obtained? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Community history such as: specific dates, important events, seasonal observations, customs, etc.
 B. Geographic features and/or unique land markers such as: mountain or river names/locations, types of landscapes, or other geographic information.
 C. Wildlife (including identification of): mammals, birds, insects, big game, fish, or other animals specific to the area.
 D. General knowledge of safety precautions, weather conditions, recreation options, and important information knowledgeable to the local community.
 E. Other unique information not listed above (you may be asked to elaborate at a later time).


5.
How did you obtain your knowledge of the unique practices of the public lands? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Personal knowledge such as: fishing, hunting, camping, hiking, etc.
 B. Professional: obtained through a position held.
 C. Official training: high school class, college course, on-line training.
 D. Other resource used to obtain knowledge that is not listed above (you may be asked to elaborate at a later time).


6.
Your responses to this assessment, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skill, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙