Position Title
Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12927067-26-CD Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7
8


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient) position with the Tuscaloosa VA. Below are the Qualifications, please answer the following questions below.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either  (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC or (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

Note: Mastery level certification is required for all positions above journey level; however, for clinical documentation improvement specialist assignments, a clinical documentation improvement certification may be substituted for a mastery level certification

Note: You must provide an updated Certification within this application packet. Failure to do so will result in a disqualifying rating.

Do you possess a current AHIMA, ACDIS, or AAPC Certification?
 Yes, and I understand that I must provide a copy of my current Certification.
 No. I do not posses an AHIMA, ACDIS or AAPC Certification.


3.
Grade Level Requirements. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-5

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level;
OR,
(b) Education. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or technology. Transcripts Required

 Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 1 MRTs (Coder) and receive guidance from more experienced MRTs (Coder) for more complex coding procedures. Selects and assigns codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder).In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs):
Ability to use health information technology and various office software products used in MRT (Coder) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, etc.).
 Ability to navigate through and abstract pertinent information from health records.
Knowledge of the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT guidelines.
Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology, human anatomy/physiology, and disease processes to accurately assign codes to inpatient and outpatient episodes of care based on health record documentation.
Knowledge of The Joint Commission requirements, CMS, and/or health record documentation guidelines.
Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes, and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.
Have you completed at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-04) and meet all of the KSAs listed? Your resume must clearly demonstrate your experience.
 Yes, I meet this requirement and I understand that my resume must clearly demonstrate my experience.
 No. I do not meet this requirement.


4.
Grade Level Requirements. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-6

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

 Employees at this grade level serve in a developmental level 2 MRTs (Coder) positions and receive intermittent monitoring. procedures.. MRTs (Coder) perform a combination of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. They select and assigns codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs):
Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation.
Ability to determine whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support the assigned codes. This includes the ability to take appropriate actions if health record contents are not complete, accurate, timely, and/or reliable.
Ability to apply laws and regulations on the confidentiality of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and HIPAA).
Ability to accurately apply the ICD CM, PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting, and CPT Guidelines to various coding scenarios.
Comprehensive knowledge of current classification systems, such as ICD CM, PCS, CPT, HCPCS, and skill in applying classifications to both inpatient and outpatient records based on health record documentation.
Knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC) and POA indicators to obtain correct MS-DRG
Have you completed at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-05) and meet all of the KSAs listed? Your resume must clearly demonstrate your experience.
 Yes, I meet this requirement and I understand that my resume must clearly demonstrate my experience.
 No. I do not meet this requirement.


5.
Grade Level Requirements. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-7

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

Employees at this grade level serve in developmental level 3 positions as MRTs (Coder) and receive minimal monitoring. MRTs (Coder) perform a combination of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. They select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social, and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with limited guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports the diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They also query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs):
Skill in applying current coding classifications to a variety of inpatient and outpatient specialty care areas to accurately reflect service and care provided based on documentation in the health record.
Ability to communicate with clinical staff for specific coding and documentation issues, such as recording inpatient and outpatient diagnoses and procedures, the correct sequencing of diagnoses and/or procedures, and the relationship between health record documentation and code assignment.
Ability to research and solve coding and documentation related issues.
Skill in reviewing and correcting system or processing errors and ensuring all assigned work is complete.
Ability to abstract, assign, and sequence codes, including complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indicators to obtain correct MS-DRG.
Have you completed at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-06) and meet all of the KSAs listed? Your resume must clearly demonstrate your experience.
 Yes, I meet this requirement and I understand that my resume must clearly demonstrate my experience.
 No. I do not meet the above requirements.


6.
Grade Level Requirements. Medical Records Technician (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-8

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

This is the journey level for this assignment. MRTs (Coder) at this level perform the full scope of inpatient and outpatient coding duties. MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, CPT, and HCPCS classification systems to both inpatient and outpatient records. Inpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to assign ICD CM and PCS codes for diagnosis, complications/major complications, comorbid/major comorbid conditions, surgery, and procedures for accurate assignment of DRGs. Outpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to accurately assign ICD CM codes for diagnosis and complications, and CPT/HCPCS codes for surgeries, procedures, evaluation and management services, and inpatient professional services. They independently review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They code all complicated and complex medical/specialty diseases processes, patient injuries, and all medical procedures in a wide range of ambulatory/inpatient settings and specialties. They directly consult with the clinical staff for clarification of conflicting, incomplete, or ambiguous clinical data in the health record. They abstract, assign, and sequence codes into encoder software to obtain correct diagnosis related DRG, support medical necessity, resolve encoder edits, and ensure codes accurately reflect services rendered. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They enter and correct information that has been rejected, when necessary. They correct any identified data errors or inconsistencies. They also ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs):
Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the health record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient.
Ability to accurately perform the full scope of outpatient coding, including ambulatory surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and outpatient encounters, and inpatient facility coding, including inpatient discharges, surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and inpatient professional services.
Skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work, or have gaps in specificity, and the ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines.
Have you completed at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07) and meet all of the KSAs listed? Your resume must clearly demonstrate your experience.
 Yes, I meet this requirement and I understand that my resume must clearly demonstrate my experience.
 No. I do not meet this requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙