Position Title
Recreation Assistant (Marina Admin)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12937065 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Recreation Assistant (Marina) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating


1.
Knowledge of boating, terminology, watercraft operations and maintenance, water and boating safety, handling of boats (e.g., launching, mooring, etc.), boating requirement and facilities and recreational boating activities
 3+ years of documented knowledge
 2 to 3 years of documented knowledge
 1 - 2 years of documented knowledge
 Less than 1 year of documented knowledge
 No documented knowledge but the capability to learn


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Ability to operate a motor vehicle
 Yes
 No


3.
Ability to operate a personal computer and perform basic word processing and spreadsheet tasks using Microsoft and site-specific software.
 Yes
 No


4.
Ability to effectively operate office machines to include cash registers and computers.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙