Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Contact Representation)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
319-26-AF-13031459-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Local Commuting Area
1.
Do you currently reside within the local commuting area of the Columbia Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina?
 Yes
 No


2.
If no, do you intend to relocate to the local commuting area of the Columbia Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina, if selected for the position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTION: Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veteran Affairs. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your Time in Grade, Specialized Experience and/or education, and Certification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Select only one response for each question. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.

This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA)  employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


1.
AREA OF CONSIDERATION: This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA)  employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible. From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Legal Admin Specialist (Contact Rep) GS-10.
 Yes, I am currently employed by the Veterans Benefits Administration. I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 Yes, I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I am not a current and permanent employee of the Veterans Benefits Administration


2.
TIME IN GRADE: I am a current VBA employee or CTAP eligible that has at least one (1) year (time-in-grade) at the GS-09 grade level. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal Service. (Note: To support your claim of time-in-grade, you must submit your most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your recent SF-50.
 Yes, I am a current VBA employee or CTAP eligible that have at least one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-9 level or higher to qualify for the GS-10. SF 50s must be submitted to show proof of time-in grade. You can submit more than one SF50 to show proof of time-in-grade such as a within grade or a promotion.
 No, I have not held one (1) year of time-in-grade at the GS-9 or higher to qualify for the GS-10.


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: To Qualify at the grade level of GS-10: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-09).

Specialized Experience is defined as (1) experience that has demonstrated the capability of being a self-reliant decision-maker and possessing the ability to work independently when providing customer service benefits counseling and claims processing. (2) The individual must possess in-depth knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Specialized Experience is defined as experience that has equipped the applicant to perform at the journeyman level of this position with little to no training or supervision.

Specialized Experience: One year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-9 grade level the federal service), experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.

Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to providing information to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; and performing research of local, state, and federal laws and regulations to determine veteran's eligibility for benefits programs.

NOTE: Specialized experience is defined as (1) experience that has demonstrated the capability of being a self-reliant decision-maker and possessing the ability to work independently when providing customer service benefits counseling and claims processing. (2) The individual must possess in-depth knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector.

OR,

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. (Must submit transcripts).

OR,

Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education beyond two years of progressively higher level graduate education.

Note for GS-10: Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used in combination with experience to qualify applicants.
 Yes, I have a minimum of one (1) year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-09 level or higher that has demonstrated the capability of being a self-reliant decision-maker and possessing the ability to work independently when providing customer service benefits counseling and claims processing. (2) The individual must possess in-depth knowledge of researching relevant subject matter. (3) The experience should be significantly and directly derived from federal, military, or the private sector. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to orating to persons from a wide variety of backgrounds regarding VA benefits programs; performing research of local, state, and Federal laws and regulations to determine Veterans' eligibility for benefits programs .
 I have two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. My graduate level education demonstrates the competencies necessary to do the work of this position. (Must submit Transcripts)
 I have a combination of experience described in A and education described in B that when combined is beyond two years progressively higher level graduate education. (Must submit Transcripts)
 My experience is not described in the above statement.


4.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do NOT wish to certify. I understand that I will NOT be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙