Position Title
Supervisory Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12973837-26-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Proficiency: Applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education and Experience: The individual must meet at least one of the following requirements below:

(a) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist;

NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
or
(b) Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field;

NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy, or
(c) Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.

Note: Transcripts must display conferred date. (transcript must be submitted with application packet to be given credit)
 Yes, I possess a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist. I understand that my resume must display the dates of employment.
 Yes, I possess a Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field. I understand that my resume must display the dates of employment and I must submit transcripts displaying 2 full years of graduate education.
 Yes, possess a Master’s Degree or higher in Occupational Therapy. I understand that I must submit transcripts displaying a conferred date.
 No, neither of these apply.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your doctoral degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:  
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?

Note: Submission of Licensure is required!  Please submit your License displaying the issuance and expiration date.
 Yes, I understand that my license must display the issuance and expiration date.
 No, I do not possess licensure.


3a.
Please provide your license information:
Name on License:
State of License issued:
Complete License number:
Expiration date:


4.
Certification: Please select the most appropriate statement below in reference to National Board for Certification in Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) certification.

Note:  Valid Certification must be submitted with your application packet to be given credit.
 I have a current NBCOT certification. I understand that I must submit a copy. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision: I was employed with VHA on December 13, 2019 (and remain employed) as an Occupational Therapist and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and certification/licensure requirements that are part of the basic requirements for the occupation. I understand that I must submit a SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, to document this employment as well as a current SF-50. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 No, I do not possess a current NBCOT certification as an Occupational Therapist.


5.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.

GS-13: Supervisory Occupational Therapist, GS-13

1) Education, Experience, and Licensure. Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and directly related to the position being filled. Provide direct occupational therapy interventions and procedures with varying degrees of complexity to enhance safety, wellness, and performance in ADL, instrumental IADL, education, work, play, leisure, and social participation. OTs demonstrate a full professional understanding of the theories of treatment in occupational therapy and their proper application through the use of activity analysis, behavioral intervention, frame of references, and therapeutic procedures

(2) Demonstrated KSAs. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all the following KSAs: (must demonstrate the experiences in your resume to be creditable)
(a) Ability to balance multiple responsibilities, set priorities, delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems, and develop and implement effective solutions.
(b) Ability to analyze organizational and operational problems to develop and implement solutions that result in efficient operations and use data effectively to manage workload, quality performance, and productivity within the service.
(c) Skill in dealing with employees, team leaders, and managers to include conflict resolution.
(d) Ability to utilize evidence-based practices and clinical practice guidelines in a professional area and to guide the staff in applying these tools.

Do you meet the grade determining requirements listed above? Your resume must demonstrate how you meet the listed KSAs.
 Yes, I possess the education, experience and licensure and certification for the GS-13 Occupational Therapist position listed above. I understand that I must fully detail this in my resume.
 I meet the Grandfathering Provision: I was employed with VHA on December 13, 2019 (and remain employed) as an Occupational Therapist and am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and certification/licensure requirements that are part of the basic requirements for the occupation. I understand that I must submit a SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, to document this employment as well as a current SF-50. Failure to do so may result in an ineligible rating.
 No, I do not possess the education, experience , licensure nor certification for the GS-13 Occupational Therapist listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙