Position Title
Front Desk Clerk (UH)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12779137 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 06, 2025 to Aug 13, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in working for Unaccompanied Housing aboard Naval Station Everett. Please answer the following questions to how it relates to your professional experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position may be designated as essential personnel for inclement weather or in the interest of national security and may be required to report for work when other employees are excused. This position may also be recalled to duty and/or required to work overtime. Are you available to work at these times?
 Yes
 No


2.
Travel may be required for this position. Do you possess a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


3.
How much practical work experience do you have in direct customer service?
 4 years or more of practical experience in direct customer service.
 2-3 years or more of practical experience in direct customer service.
 1 year or more of practical experience in direct customer service.
 No experience in practical experience in direct customer service.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Are you available to work weekends, holidays and rotating shifts consisting of other than normal duty hours?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please select your experience level with Microsoft Office Programs (e.g., Word, Excel, Power Point, Outlook) and other programs.
 5+ years of experience in the above.
 3-4 years of experience in the above.
 1-2 years of experience in the above.
 No experience in the above.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


6.
Please explain your experience with hospitality principles, concepts, standards, and regulations.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙