Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC LEADER
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13011954-AR-26-097 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E4 - E9 or WO1?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E4 - E9.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E4 - E9 or WO1.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and can use common tools and equipment in the line of work.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess 24 months of experience and in addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, organize, and lead the work of others in fields directly related the repair function of this occupational series. Must have the ability to perform administrative functions; to read and interpret a variety of technical publications used in the repair of supported equipment. The ability to provide guidance to others in work related directly to this occupational series.
 Yes
 No


3.
Supervisory: Describe a time when you were responsible for leading a team of technicians or mechanics. In your response, detail how you assigned tasks based on the individual skills and abilities of your team members. Also, explain the steps you took to ensure that your team had all the necessary plans, materials, and tools to complete their work efficiently.


4.
Tell us about a time you fixed a difficult mechanical problem on a heavy-duty or military vehicle. What steps did you take to find the cause of the problem, and what tools did you use? How did you figure out everything that needed to be repaired?


5.
Describe a time you completely rebuilt a major vehicle system, like an engine or transmission. What were the main steps you took to take it apart, make the repairs, and put it back together? How did you test it to make sure it was working correctly?


6.
Tell us about a time you had to work alone to complete a repair in the field. How did you handle the job from start to finish? Also, describe a time you helped train a less experienced mechanic with a difficult repair.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙