Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12966489-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of War Education Activity Civilian Employee within the Commuting Area


Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMUTING AREA. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1."

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMUTING AREA. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Department of War Education Activity Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2.").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of War Education Activity employee within the communing area in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoDEA) civilian employee within the commuting area of the position being filled?

 Yes
 No


Military Spouse
1.
Are you a military spouse who is currently married to an active duty military member?

NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations) position with the Department of War Education Activity.

Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations at the GS-14grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the Federal service which includes: Assisting with managing an employee relations program, including areas such as drug testing, work-life and telework programs, incentive awards, adverse actions, discipline, performance management, and leave administration. Interpreting and applying Federal case law and providing relevant Management and Employee Relations guidance to staff and other HR specialists. Assisting with the development and issuing of policies, procedures, and operating guidance for managers and other HR specialists in response to new case decisions and legislative changes.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙