Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
314-26-JML-13040999-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VBA, VBACO, NCA, VHA,) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VA?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


2.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity
 This does not apply to me as I am not a current VBA employee.


3.
What is your current grade?


4.
What is the full performance level (highest promotion potential) of your current position?


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


5.
Time-in-grade GS-13: At minimum, do you possess 52 weeks in the federal service at the GS-12 grade level or higher that will qualify you for the Administrative Officer position at the GS-13 level? Provide a non-award, non-General Adjustment SF-50. (You can provide your most recent Within Grade Increase, Promotion, or Change to Lower Grade SF-50).
 I have held a GS-13 or higher grade.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade as a GS-12 grade level.
 No, I do not meet time-in-grade requirements.


This section includes questions regarding qualifications for this position. Select the appropriate response to the following question based upon your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of the position. Your response(s) must be clearly documented AND supported in your submitted resume/application materials. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selection is subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability.


6.
Specialized Experience GS-13: To qualify at the GS-13 grade, you must have one (1) of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-12 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is experience in a multifaceted program of services, administrative operations, management programs, and budget/fiscal and for a large federal office. The experience should demonstrate the following:
Managing or supervising an administrative support function that provides a combination of administrative or related services (i.e. PIV Cards, physical security, safety). 
Administers a large complex budget and a comprehensive, integrated accounting system to include preparing and monitoring complex budgets and resolving financial management issues; formulates and executes budget activities for the RO. 
Prepares reports, plans, policies, position papers and technical presentations involving administrative program issues; 
Provides advice, planning directing and management of RO Facilities; 
Planning, managing, executing, evaluating and facilitating program success, efficiency, and cost effectiveness. 
 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent.
 I do not have the specialized experience listed in the vacancy announcement.


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙