Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-26-LAH-13062927-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions, a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a Veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open to those covered by the indicated hiring paths and living in the local, San Diego commuting area. Veterans eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) and current permanent VBA employees holding the [insert recruitment grade(s)] or higher and seeking non-competitive reassignment/change to lower grade need not to live in the local commuting area to be considered."


1.
Do you currently reside in the local, San Diego, CA commuting area and meet one of the hiring eligibilities listed in the announcement?
 Yes, I currently reside in the local, San Diego, CA commuting area and have a valid hiring eligibility.
 No, but I am a veteran eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) and need not live in the commuting area.
 No, but I am a current VBA employee seeking a reassignment or change to lower grade to the grade level posted in this job announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service. Your responses will be subject to verification. You must provide SF-50s to prove time in grade. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess 52 weeks' time in-grade. In this instance, you must also submit your most recent promotion or within-grade increase in addition to your most recent SF-50. If you previously held a higher grade, you must also submit and SF-50 showing that grade. DO NOT submit Award SF-50's and/or General Adjustment SF-50's as they cannot be used to prove time in-grade.


2.
GS-07: At the GS-07 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-05 grade or higher. Please select the ONE response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-07 grade (or higher).
 I have one year in a GS-05 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.
GS-09: At the GS-09 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or higher. Please select the ONE response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-09 grade (or higher).
 I have one year in a GS-07 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is described as experience in transcription of medical or legal terminology to include grammar, punctuation, spelling, and the proper formats for various types of hearings.


4.
GS-07: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0301-07 Program Specialist position. If your resume and application package do not support your questionnaire answers, we will adjust your rating accordingly. Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is described as experience in transcription of medical or legal terminology to include grammar, punctuation, spelling, and the proper formats for various types of hearings. Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. Graduate education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities described in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of this announcement. 1 full year of graduate level education or A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher) Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov. Combination of Experience and Education: A combination of successfully completed post high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements. To calculate, first identify your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required; then determine your education as a percentage of the education required; then add the two percentages. The total of percentages must equal 100% to qualify.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service.
 I have one full year of graduate level education, or a bachelors degree with Superior Academic Achievement (SAA). (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and GRADUATE education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. In addition to the skills for the GS-7 level, specialized experience at the GS-9 must document experience providing quality reviews and training for transcription positions.


5.
GS-09: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0301-09 Program Specialist position. If your resume and application package do not support your questionnaire answers, we will adjust your rating accordingly. Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. In addition to the skills for the GS-7 level, specialized experience at the GS-9 must document experience providing quality reviews and training for transcription positions. Education substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. Graduate education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities described in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of this announcement. A Master's or equivalent graduate degree; Two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree LL.B. or J.D. if related to the duties of this position Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate-level education: When substituting you can only use graduate level education you have earned. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. For example, an applicant who has 27 semester hours of graduate level education (i.e. 50% of graduate education in excess of the first 18 semester credit hours earned) and 6 months of creditable specialized experience (i.e. 50% of the required experience) would equal 100% of the required experience for the GS-09 grade level.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service.
 I have two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as LL.B. or J.D.). (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and GRADUATE education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


6.
Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙