Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12907341-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 20% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 20% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has been designated as performing Project and/or Program Management functions. In accordance with USACE policy and the Program and Project Management Career Development Plan (CDP), Program and Project Managers are required to achieve, at minimum, Level 1 CDP internal qualification. Do you have a Level 1 CDP qualification or are you able to acquire the certification within 12 months of appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this Occupational Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Manager at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes working with Project Management Business Processes and tools; experience with project and program management of vertical design projects Military Construction/ Interagency and International Services (MILCON/IIS), or related military programs; experience working with project and program budgets.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. ? There are no right or wrong answers. ? Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. ? This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position. ________________________________________


1.
You are reviewing a Project Management Plan for a new military housing facility in the California desert when you discover that the environmental impact assessment appears to conflict with recent EPA's updated Section 404 guidelines for ephemeral streams, common to desert ecosystems. The project is scheduled to begin construction in six weeks, and the customer has already committed significant resources. What is your most appropriate course of action?

 Pause the formal review and convene a technical team including environmental specialists, legal counsel, and project stakeholders to analyze the compliance gap, define mitigation strategies, and revise the PMP before approval.
 Document the compliance issue in detail and escalate it to your Division Chief, recommending a pause on construction until environmental requirements are verified and the PMP is updated.
 Contact the environmental coordinator informally to clarify the discrepancy while continuing the administrative and financial review sections of the PMP pending further guidance.
 Include the compliance issue in your review comments and forward the PMP to the customer, recommending they consult their environmental specialists before construction begins.
 Approve the PMP as submitted, assuming the original assessment's certification is sufficient and any discrepancies can be addressed through change orders during construction.


2.
You are developing a Project Management Plan (PMP) for a complex facility with a congressionally mandated funding deadline. The Project Delivery Team's (PDT) technical lead reports an 18-month design estimate, but the customer's representative on the PDT is advocating for a 12-month schedule. As the Program Manager, how do you best align the PMP to optimize project parameters and address this discrepancy?

 Engage the engineering team to identify critical path activities that can be fast-tracked with added resources, while formally documenting the associated risks to quality and safety standards for inclusion in the Project Management Plan (PMP).
 Convene the Project Delivery Team (PDT) to conduct a risk analysis on the compressed schedule, develop viable alternatives with phased options and parallel work streams, and present these options to the customer for a collaborative decision.
 Agree to the 12-month customer timeline and direct the team to add contractor support, noting the significant schedule and quality risks in the PMP's risk register without proposing specific mitigation measures or alternative approaches.
 Accept the 12-month timeline by directing the team to curtail design reviews and safety assessments, asserting that congressional funding deadlines supersede established USACE quality and safety protocols in the Project Management Plan (PMP).
 Propose a compromise 15-month schedule by overlapping non-critical design activities and formally present this single alternative to the customer along with a high-level overview of the associated risks and potential cost impacts.


3.
As the Program Manager, you are reviewing a final draft PMP when you identify two critical compliance issues: the acquisition strategy contradicts the signed customer agreement on small business goals, and the proposed acquisition schedule violates federal procurement law. The Project Manager has requested immediate approval to maintain the project's timeline. What is your most appropriate response?

 Grant conditional PMP approval, stipulating that the project manager must formally resolve the small business and procurement regulation conflicts within 30 days, or the authority to proceed will be rescinded by the program manager.
 Contact the customer directly to renegotiate the small business agreement to align with the current PMP acquisition strategy, while documenting the federal procurement regulation conflicts for resolution during the next project phase review.
 Do not approve the PMP. Return it to the project manager with documented findings, directing that the acquisition strategy and schedule be revised to meet all legal and customer agreement requirements before resubmission for a final compliance review.
 Withhold approval and schedule an urgent meeting with the project manager and contracting officer to develop a corrective action plan that resolves both the stakeholder agreement and the regulatory compliance conflicts within the PMP.
 Approve the PMP as submitted, justifying that compliance issues can be addressed through contract modifications during project execution and that maintaining the schedule is the highest priority for successful project delivery.


4.
During a monthly review of a military medical clinic project, you note the Cost Performance Index (CPI) is 0.85 at the 60% completion point, driven by unforeseen soil conditions requiring significant foundation changes. The project manager reports the Schedule Performance Index (SPI) is 1.0 and that the original completion date is not at risk. As the Program Manager, what is your most appropriate response?

 Direct the project manager to absorb the cost overrun by reducing the technical specifications for non-critical project features, thereby maintaining the original budget and the current project completion schedule without formal change requests.
 Continue with the current approach, accepting that budget overruns are common risks in construction projects, and plan to address the financial shortfall toward the end of the project if and when it becomes necessary to do so.
 Direct the project manager to develop a detailed cost recovery plan, identifying potential value engineering savings in non-critical work, while ensuring no compromise to the project's quality or safety standards and documenting all findings.
 Assemble the Project Delivery Team, including cost engineering and contracting, to analyze the cost variance, evaluate alternatives like scope adjustments or additional funding, and prepare a formal change request with detailed justification for the Change Control Board.
 Task the project manager with documenting the cost variance and its root cause, and then coordinate with resource management to explore the use of existing management reserve or contingency funds to cover the projected cost overrun.


5.
Your Division Chief tasks you with drafting the initial Program Management Plan (PgMP) for a new mission supporting Department of Interior facilities across five western states. The mission requires known expertise gaps in tribal consultation and unique environmental compliance. Given a six-month startup timeline, what is your primary recommendation for the PgMP's resource and staffing approach?

 Advise accepting the new mission without a detailed staffing plan, asserting that the division's general construction and environmental experience is sufficient and that unique mission requirements can be addressed through adaptive management as they arise.
 Advise reallocating experienced staff from existing projects to lead the new mission, while simultaneously starting the hiring process for junior staff and establishing on-call contracts for firms specializing in tribal and environmental compliance.
 Recommend the PgMP be based on a formal capabilities gap analysis, leading to a multi-faceted staffing plan that mitigates risks using targeted recruitment, matrix support from other USACE districts, and specialized contractor reach-back agreements.
 Propose the PgMP establish a core Project Delivery Team with dedicated leads, immediately supplemented with full-time contractor support for the critical tribal consultation and environmental compliance expertise needed to meet mission requirements.
 Recommend formally accepting the mission with current staffing levels, with a plan to develop the necessary expertise via on-the-job training and to acquire contractor support on a just-in-time basis as task orders are assigned.


6.
In preparation for tomorrow's budget approval meeting, you're reviewing a PMP where the cost estimate is 25% higher than analogous projects. The project manager and cost engineer attribute this to enhanced security scope defined by the customer. With the customer already questioning the cost, what is your immediate recommendation to your Division Chief?

 Immediately convene the cost engineer and technical leads to validate the cost breakdown against the documented security requirements, prepare a comparative analysis against similar high-security projects, and provide a formal recommendation to approve with a defensible justification package.
 Recommend approval based on the project team's expertise and documented requirements, but instruct the project manager to independently present a high-level summary of the cost drivers at the meeting to address any questions that may arise.
 Recommend rejecting the estimate and directing the project manager to reduce the budget to align with standard project costs, suggesting that enhanced security scope can be pursued later via separate contract modifications if truly needed.
 Request the project manager provide more detailed cost sheets and supporting documentation, then schedule a separate meeting with the customer to walk them through the security cost drivers before engaging leadership on the budget approval recommendation.
 Schedule an urgent review with the project manager and cost engineer to confirm the cost drivers, then direct them to prepare a detailed justification brief comparing the design to a standard facility to explain the variance to leadership.


7.
During a portfolio review, you uncover a systemic issue where several project managers are mischarging their Project Management (PM) labor hours to direct Construction work accounts. This practice, ongoing for a quarter, has skewed project cost data in CEFMS and compromised fiscal year budget projections. What is your immediate and most appropriate response as the Program Manager?

 Issue a directive to all project managers to immediately cease the improper charging, partner with resource management to quantify the total fiscal impact, and develop a comprehensive plan to correct the misaligned cost data in the financial system.
 Immediately halt all improper charging, notify leadership of the fiscal integrity issue, direct a full audit to quantify the impact, task resource management with correcting all mischarges, and implement mandatory ethics and cost charging training.
 Schedule a meeting with the involved project managers to discuss the root causes of the mischarging, then coordinate with the resource management office to issue revised guidance on proper labor cost allocation and monitoring procedures for future work.
 Allow the mischarging to continue through the end of the fiscal year, justifying that correcting it now would create unacceptable budget variances in the planning accounts and disrupt project execution activities for the remainder of the fiscal year.
 Instruct the project managers to cease the practice going forward, but decide against correcting past data due to the administrative burden, and plan to address the known data inaccuracies during the next annual budget formulation cycle.


8.
On a high-priority housing project, key members of your Project Delivery Team (PDT) from Environmental and Real Estate have identified conflicting requirements that threaten a four-month schedule delay. With the Engineering lead ready to start design and a customer brief next week, how do you, as the Project Manager, lead the PDT to a resolution?

 Formally task the Environmental and Real Estate leads with resolving their conflict independently and reporting back with a joint solution within two business days, while advising the Engineering team to be prepared for potential design changes.
 Conduct separate initial meetings with the Environmental and Real Estate leads to understand their positions, then convene a follow-up meeting with those disciplines and Engineering to broker a compromise that minimally impacts the overall design.
 Make an executive decision to prioritize the Environmental team's requirements based on their regulatory nature, and direct the Real Estate team to revise their strategy accordingly to maintain the project's original schedule and customer commitments.
 Immediately convene the entire Project Delivery Team to define the conflict's impact on the project's baseline, then facilitate a collaborative session to develop and agree upon a unified path forward that all team members can support.
 Authorize the Engineering team to proceed with their design based on current assumptions, justifying that resolving the Environmental and Real Estate conflicts can be managed through contract modifications or change orders after the design is substantially complete.


9.
As Program Manager, you are executing a PgMP where the critical path is threatened by a six-week environmental survey delay, even as Construction is ready to mobilize. Concurrently, Resource Management has pending budget actions and Office of Counsel is reviewing permits. How do you restore alignment across these competing functional demands?

 Authorize Construction to proceed with limited site preparation activities based on preliminary environmental assessments, while individually working with Contracting and Resource Management to expedite their separate supporting tasks and resolve delays as they occur.
 Maintain the current plan without formal intervention, operating under the assumption that each functional organization is solely responsible for its own deliverables and that any integration conflicts can be resolved reactively by the teams as issues arise.
 Personally engage with each functional lead to document their constraints and timelines, then develop and brief a revised, sequenced schedule that de-conflicts the critical path while adhering to all legal and regulatory requirements.
 Prioritize efforts on resolving the critical path contracting delays by expediting actions with Contracting and Office of Counsel, while coordinating with Resource Management and Construction to maintain parallel progress on non-dependent activities where possible.
 Establish a recurring PDT integration meeting, formalize an Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) to track all dependencies, and update the Programmatic Risk Management Plan with contingency actions that allow for parallel, compliant work where feasible.


10.
You are drafting the Stakeholder Management Plan for a PMP. The project faces opposition from environmental groups, concern from congressional staff, and conflicting requirements from three other government agencies. The customer is pressuring for immediate approval. What stakeholder management strategy do you document in the PMP?

 Recommend proceeding with the customer's preferred design immediately, asserting that their project authority is primary and that all other stakeholder concerns can be managed reactively through the formal, legally-required public comment period later in the process.
 Prioritize external communications by holding a public information session to advocate for the project's benefits and address environmental concerns, while tasking the technical leads with resolving the inter-agency design conflicts separately from the public outreach effort.
 Document a multi-phased engagement plan: first, meet with each group to define their interests; then, facilitate a collaborative, multi-stakeholder workshop to identify common ground and forge a consensus path forward to inform the final project design.
 Focus primarily on resolving the technical conflicts between the government agencies first, planning to brief congressional staff and environmental groups only after a technical design solution has been selected and approved by the customer agency.
 Propose a plan to systematically interview each stakeholder group to document their requirements and concerns, then have the PDT analyze this data and develop a proposed solution that attempts to address each stakeholder issue individually.


11.
You are preparing for a Program Review with your Division Chief, who needs a briefing package for tomorrow's command-level IPR. Your program faces a 20% cost overrun, critical permit delays, and congressional inquiries. The Chief needs a full picture and defensible recommendations. How do you structure the briefing content?

 Structure a briefing with a clear 'bottom line up front' (BLUF), detailing each issue's root cause, program impact, and a specific, resourced action plan with firm recommendations for command-level decisions to maintain program objectives.
 Organize the briefing by issue severity, providing detailed background on each challenge and presenting potential courses of action (COAs) with associated pros, cons, and resource impacts for leadership to deliberate and decide upon.
 Design the briefing to highlight positive program accomplishments first to build confidence, then downplay the challenges as routine, manageable issues that are being handled at the team level and do not require command-level visibility or intervention.
 Focus the briefing on the 20% cost overrun as the most critical issue, provide a detailed problem statement with context, present your single recommended course of action, and briefly note the other program challenges.
 Prepare a status-focused briefing that lists each program issue and the initial steps the team has taken to address them, then conclude by asking leadership for guidance on how to prioritize these competing challenges.


12.
You are preparing to defend a $50M budget request?a critical component of your Program Management Plan?before a panel of senior military, civilian, and congressional stakeholders. With the presentation in two days, you learn that a similar request from another district was just denied. What is your immediate preparation strategy?

 Commit to your original presentation without changes, operating under the assumption that your project's valid requirements stand on their own merit and that the other district's denial is irrelevant to your specific project circumstances and requirements.
 Revise the presentation to focus heavily on differentiating your project from the one that was denied, emphasize your project's unique technical scope and more critical mission alignment, assuming the denial was primarily due to project-specific flaws.
 Make only minor changes to your original presentation by adding a single slide that acknowledges budget constraints and offers a willingness to discuss phased implementation if required by the panel, but otherwise presenting your original case.
 Strengthen your existing presentation by adding a detailed risk assessment for non-funding and developing backup slides that specifically address the likely reasons for the previous denial while demonstrating clear mission impact and project criticality.
 Immediately research the specific reasons for the other district's denial, re-baseline your entire briefing to proactively address those issues, reinforce your justification with a stronger cost-benefit analysis, and prepare a detailed Q&A on project alternatives.


13.
Your multi-district program is suffering from a breakdown in communication protocols, causing stakeholder confusion and eroding confidence. This indicates a failure in the Program Management Plan's (PgMP) existing communications strategy. As the Program Manager, what is your most appropriate corrective action to restore order and trust?

 Direct the immediate development of a centralized program dashboard to serve as a single source of truth for all stakeholders, while establishing direct lines of communication between the district project managers to resolve data conflicts.
 Maintain the current communication approach, operating under the assumption that some stakeholder confusion is unavoidable in complex programs and that as long as the final deliverables are met, interim communication issues are not a primary concern.
 Charter a new communication plan that designates district-level points of contact, requires weekly status reports for all stakeholders, and institutes a recurring coordination call to de-conflict information before it is released to the public.
 Schedule a series of meetings with the most frustrated stakeholders to correct the misinformation and address their concerns, while contacting the other district PMs to request that they coordinate with you before sending out future updates.
 Revise and formalize the PgMP's Communications Plan to establish a clear governance protocol, including a stakeholder communication matrix, standardized reporting from a single data source, and a recurring battle rhythm of integration meetings.


14.
Your program's performance metrics indicate a systemic workload imbalance across your 15 project managers, with declining productivity in overloaded areas. This signals a flaw in your PgMP's Resource Management Plan. As the Program Manager, what is your most appropriate strategy to optimize your team's efficiency and ensure sustainable performance?

 Make an immediate, leadership-directed decision to transfer several projects from overloaded managers to those with capacity, and assign administrative support to the receiving managers to help them absorb the new workload and manage the transition effectively.
 Submit an urgent request to hire additional project managers to relieve the overloaded staff, arguing that reassigning projects internally would disrupt established customer relationships and is therefore not a viable solution for addressing the current program workload imbalance.
 Address the immediate performance decline by meeting with the overloaded managers to identify projects for immediate reassignment, then schedule recurring workload review meetings to manually track team balance and prevent future imbalances on a go-forward basis.
 Initiate a data-driven workload analysis to quantify capacity and skill gaps, implement a phased project redistribution based on this data, and establish a dynamic workload monitoring system as a permanent update to the Resource Management Plan.
 Conduct a formal review of project assignments against staff capabilities and professional development goals, then develop and execute a one-time, structured workload rebalancing plan that aligns projects with individual skills and career advancement objectives.


15.
As Program Manager, you're tasked with revising your PgMP's Resource Management Plan. A key flaw is that the current PM performance standards are generic and fail to account for varying project complexity, hindering fair evaluations and career development. What is your strategy for establishing more appropriate and effective standards?

 Continue to use the existing generic standards without modification, arguing that organizational consistency is paramount and that any differences in project complexity are best addressed through informal, day-to-day feedback and coaching from supervisors.
 Retain the single, generic performance standard for all PMs to ensure organizational consistency, but require supervisors to add a subjective narrative section to each evaluation that manually accounts for the unique complexity and challenges of assigned projects.
 Develop a multi-tiered competency model where performance standards directly align with project complexity and PM certification levels, integrating both quantitative metrics (e.g., CPI/SPI) and qualitative assessments of leadership and stakeholder management skills.
 Establish a hybrid performance plan that defines universal competencies for all PMs (e.g., ethics, communication) and adds specialized, weighted evaluation criteria based on whether a project is classified as new construction or routine maintenance.
 Define a single set of core standards for all PMs, but create a supplementary "addendum" of criteria for those managing complex projects and implement a 360-degree peer review component as part of the annual assessment cycle.


16.
A resource conflict between two senior PMs on high-priority projects is impacting your program's performance and team morale. Both projects serve the same customer and have valid needs, indicating a failure of program-level resource optimization. As the Program Manager, what is your approach to resolve the conflict and realign the team?

 Facilitate a problem-solving session with both PMs, guiding them to analyze the conflict from the customer's perspective and empowering them to collaboratively develop a resource-sharing plan that optimizes outcomes for the overall program, not just their individual projects.
 Meet with each manager separately to gather facts and understand their perspectives, then chair a structured negotiation session between the two of them where your role is to act as a neutral mediator to help them arrive at a workable compromise.
 Require both managers to submit their resource requests as formal, written justification memos with supporting data, then make a final decision based on these documents alone and communicate your binding verdict and detailed rationale back to them via email.
 Take no action on the conflict, assuming that as senior professionals, the managers should resolve the resource allocation issue on their own without leadership intervention, as intervening would only serve to undermine their authority and demonstrate a lack of trust.
 Objectively review both project plans and their resource requirements, then make an executive decision on resource allocation based on what you determine to be the program's priorities and announce your decision, directing both managers to implement it accordingly.


17.
You are drafting the Resource Management Plan for your PgMP. A key challenge is optimizing assignments for a diverse team to meet project deadlines while also fulfilling your responsibility for their professional development. What is your guiding strategy for managing this dual objective of mission delivery and workforce development?

 Analyze project needs against staff expertise to create optimal pairings, proactively establish cross-training and "stretch" assignments to build team capacity, and conduct monthly reviews to adjust assignments based on performance and evolving needs.
 Make initial assignments based on matching existing expertise to project needs, then incorporate select "stretch" assignments as opportunities for growth arise, and conduct quarterly check-ins to monitor workloads and staff development progress.
 Strictly assign work based on matching the most qualified expert to each task to guarantee deadline adherence, and de-couple professional development entirely by addressing it through separate, formal training courses outside of project work assignments.
 Prioritize assigning the most expert staff to the most critical project deadlines, task supervisors with identifying ad-hoc professional development opportunities as they arise, and conduct periodic reviews focused primarily on work quality and staff morale.
 Establish a formal competency matrix to map staff skills against program needs, implement a system of rotational assignments that balances project delivery with career development goals, and schedule recurring reviews to update and refine the plan.


18.
Your PgMP's Resource Management Plan is failing: a 4-6 month hiring pipeline is jeopardizing mission delivery, and key staff are seeking career development. As the Program Manager, what comprehensive human capital strategy do you propose to leadership to address both immediate staffing gaps and long-term workforce development?

 Triage the situation by prioritizing recruitment for the single most critical vacancy while using contractors for the others, initiate internal cross-training to build bench strength, and ask WMA/HR to explore targeted recruitment options for remaining positions.
 Develop an integrated human capital plan that uses temporary contractors and enterprise-wide matrix support for immediate gaps while working to accelerate critical hires, simultaneously implement a training plan tied directly to succession planning, and brief the strategy to leadership.
 Engage WMA/HR to explore options for expediting critical hires while securing interim contractor support to mitigate project risk, and concurrently establish a formal training program that balances employee development goals with known organizational capability gaps.
 Maintain reliance on the standard hiring process while using contractors as a temporary stopgap to address immediate needs, and approve only those training requests that align with immediate project needs and can be funded within the existing program budget.
 Insist on using only the standard hiring process without expediting measures, arguing that quality is paramount, and formally defer all training requests until every vacancy is filled, asserting that mission delivery cannot be disrupted by employee development activities.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙