Position Title
MWR Regional Golf Operations Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12954050 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the MWR Regional Golf Operations Manager position. Failure to respond to all question will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience associated with the administration, management, operation and utilization of a golf course and pro shop environment to meet the Basic Qualification for the 1101 series?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least three (3) year of specialized experience associated with the administration, management, operation and utilization of a golf course and pro shop environment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you currently hold PGA Class A Status (a copy of your PGA Class A certificate/credential must be provided at the time of application in order to be considered)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Which statement below best describes your experience with golf pro shop operations?
 I have five (5) years or more of experience with golf pro shop operations.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with golf pro shop operations.
 I have less than three (3) years of experience with golf pro shop operations.


5.
Which statement below best describes your experience with accounting, budget preparation, forecasting needs and financial management?
 I have five (5) or more years of experience with accounting, budget preparation, forecasting needs and financial management.
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of experience with accounting, budget preparation, forecasting needs and financial management.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of experience with accounting, budget preparation, forecasting needs and financial management.
 I have no experience with accounting, budget preparation, forecasting needs and financial management. management.


6.
Which statement below best describes your supervisory experience?
 I have three (3) to five (5) years of supervisory experience.
 I have one (1) to three (3) years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙