Position Title
Lifeguard/Water Safety Instructor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12988731 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Recreation Assistant (Lifeguard) position at the Aquatic Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below


1.
What is your level of experience  in pool safety rules?
 Expert – Advance knowledge in pool safety rules and precaution. Comfortable teaching others proper protocol.
 Intermediate – More than average knowledge in pool safety and proper protocol.
 I have no experience with pool and waterfront safety rules.
 Entry – Basic knowledge in pool safety and proper protocol.


2.
What is your experience level with cashing handling (i.e. POS, credit transactions, cash drawer)?
 Expert – Advance knowledge in cash handling (i.e. POS, credit transactions, cash drawer). Comfortable managing a cash drawer, entering data and calculations.
 Intermediate – More than average knowledge in cash handing (i.e. POS, credit transactions, cash drawer), and some comfortability in managing a cash drawer, entering data and calculations.
 I have no experience with cashing handling (i.e. POS, credit transactions, cash drawer).
 Entry – Basic knowledge in cash handling (i.e. POS, credit transactions, cash drawer) including with little to no experience in managing a cash drawer, entering data and calculations.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
This position requires you to conduct routine safety inspections of the facility and pool area along with pool chemical testing, document the results, and adjust chemical imbalances. You would also have to handle hazards materials (e.g. cleaning agents, gas). Would you be comfortable performing these tasks?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires you to exercise control and instruction over a large group of people ranging in ages and communicate effectively both orally and in writing. Are you able to perform these tasks?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires for its employees to have or maintain the following certification:
Lifeguard Training Certification in accordance with CNICINST 1710.3
CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Healthcare Providers
First Aid to include AED Certification
Blood Borne Pathogens
Please select the option that best relates to your application:
 I have all the above certification and am willing to maintain my certification throughout employment if selected.
 I have some of the above certification but am willing to obtain and maintain my certification within six months of employment. *Please be prepared to explain how you will obtain and maintain certifications if selected for an interview*
 I have none of the above certification but am willing to obtain and maintain my certification within six months of employment. *Please be prepared to explain how you will obtain and maintain certifications if selected for an interview*
 I have none of the above certification and I am not willing to obtain and maintain my certification within six months of employment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
This position requires you to be able to pass an initial and recurrent physical agility test. Would you be comfortable performing these assessments?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙