Position Title
Occupational Therapist-Home Based Primary Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12832751-26-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 14, 2025 to Monday, November 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you meet one of the listed Education/Experience requirements?

Please select what best fits your education/experience from the answers below.
 Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist. (NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. )
 Bachelor’s degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field. ( (NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy. )
 Master’s Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 None of the above apply.


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess written documentation of passing the entry-level certification examination for OTs administered by the National Board for Certification in OT (NBCOT)? (Documentation required)
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license, to practice occupational therapy in a state, territory or Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


5a.
Please provide your license/certification information. If you are not licensed/certified and do not expect to become certified with 3 years indicate N/A. Otherwise, indicate N/A.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-11 LEVEL: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, have you completed one year of progressively complex experience and a broader scope of experience equivalent to the next lower grade directly related to the position being filled, OR 3 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field (transcripts required)?In addition to meeting the experience or educational requirements for this grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, Abilities (KSAs):
1. Knowledge of advanced occupational therapy techniques to perform functions associated within the occupational therapy scope of practice.
2. Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
3. Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disabilities and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in depth specific assessment of function and utilization of non-standard methods and techniques.
4. Knowledge of principles and techniques in the occupational therapy assessment and treatment of occupational, cognitive, and psychological functional deficits.
5. Ability to interact with patients, families, and other health care providers.
6. Ability to facilitate and instruct in-service and clinical training programs.
7. Knowledge and ability to apply all health and safety regulations to minimize and mitigate risks in the provision of patient care and environmental maintenance.
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-12 LEVEL: Demonstrating the ability to apply advanced occupational therapy knowledge, theories, and techniques to a full range of patient populations. Applying advanced clinical skills in the following components: 1) sensory motor, to include sensory integration, neuromuscular and motor; 2) cognitive integration and cognitive components; and 3) psychosocial skills and psychological components. Administrating standardized and non-standardized tests to assess occupational performance areas of activities of daily living (ADL), work activities and play/leisure activities. Administrating occupational agent modalities (OAMs) in conjunction with advanced treatment techniques to achieve functional goals. Serving as the rehabilitation therapy liaison to an interdisciplinary team in complex rehabilitation settings. Serving as the sole OT member of a multidisciplinary or specialty care treatment team. In addition, can you demonstrate the following KSAs?
a. Advanced knowledge of contemporary occupational therapy across multiple areas of practice, and the demonstrated ability to apply this advanced knowledge to provide clinical guidance to Staff OTs within the department.
b. To balance responsibilities and to work with great autonomy.
c. Ability to adapt assessment tools and treatment to the complexity of the diagnosis or disability and demonstrate the clinical reasoning necessary to identify the need for further in depth specific assessment of disability.
d. Ability to independently develop, implement and modify an occupational therapy treatment plan in response to changing medical or psychological conditions.
e. Knowledge of the principles and techniques in the occupational therapy assessment and treatment of occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits and the ability to perform the clinical services independently.
f. Ability to organize work, set priorities and delegate tasks, meet multiple deadlines, analyze organizational problems and develop and implement effective solutions.
g. Ability to provide consultation to other health care practitioners and outside groups about occupational therapy scope of practice and areas of expertise
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙