Position Title
Senior Intergovernmental Affairs Specialist
Agency
Office of the Secretary of Health and Human Services
Announcement Number
HHS-IEA-DE-26-12934164 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the Department of Health and Human Services? If yes, confirm:
• You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• Your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
• Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and the most current Performance Appraisal. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center page (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ctap/).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 and a copy of the most current Performance Appraisal.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center. (https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/ictap/)
 Yes
 No


4.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is a mechanism used by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees who were separated by reduction-in-force (RIF) or who have fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former HHS employee who has been separated by RIF or due to a compensable injury?

If so, have you met all the following criteria? 

Separated Under RIF:
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area as the vacancy, and
Occupied a position at or above the grade of the announced position and with no greater promotion potential, and
Have a current/most recent performance rating of at least "fully successful" or equivalent.
Separated Due to a Compensable Injury:
Registered for the RPL program, and
Occupied a position in the same local commuting area as the vacancy, and
Must either have accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation or have been separated because of a compensable injury or disability, and
Must have fully recovered more than 1 year after compensation began; and
Must have received notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease.
For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, visit 5 CFR 330 Subpart B. 

Documentation is required.

You must submit the following documentation to support your claim if you were separated due to RIF:
Your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
Your SF-50 showing Separation - RIF. If that is not available yet, then official documentation of your Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
Your latest performance rating including  your rating score.
OR

You must submit the following documentation to support your claim if you were separated due to a Compensable Injury:
Your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action), or equivalent, as stated in the job announcement that shows position occupied (block #34 of your SF-50); tenure; grade and step; salary; and full performance level.
Your SF-50, which shows you've been separated, or the SF-50 that shows you accepted a position at a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation.
Notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor, that injury compensation benefits have ceased or will cease.
Your latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate documents) showing your rating score.
 Yes
 No


5.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


6.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. If your information is shared with another agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.

 Yes
 No


7.
When HHS completes its selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resource Specialists at additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please Opt-In here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I Opt-In to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with any agencies.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


8.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


9.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


10.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


11.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


12.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience (GS-14)

Do you possess at least one year of experience, equivalent to the next lower grade GS-13 in the Federal service, performing ALL of examples below:
Serving as an advisor or consultant on trends/issues affecting policies and/or programs associated with areas such as healthcare or human services.
Developing and presenting information to a variety of stakeholders on program initiatives/policies.
Representing and interacting with officials in or out of the government to explain, promote, and resolve issues relating to an agency's mission.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙