Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13072805M-CFN-0510-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CO2191) 1365 Garden of the Gods Road, Colorado Springs, CO
 B. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC
 C. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham-Seabrook, MD
 D. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 E. (WV0171) 110 North Heber St, Beckley, WV


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

BASIC REQUIREMENTS ALL GRADES (IOR): A degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
OR
COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: A combination of education and experience that includes at least four (4) years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.

AND

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: In addition to meeting basic requirements, to be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience demonstrating expert skills preparing, analyzing, interpreting and presenting accounting data; operating, maintaining, and modifying accounting systems; using accounting information to recommend solutions to management problems and structuring of organization programs; designing, implementing, and assessing internal control processes and systems; preparing financial analysis and evaluation work requiring experience working with federal government accounting practices (Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) and/or U.S. Standard Ledger) or equivalent public sector practices (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)) and experience working with the financial and management programs, operations, and practices of federal agencies, corporate, and/or other organizations.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS ALL GRADES (IOR):
Which of the following is true about your education and/or experience?

 I have a degree in accounting or a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that included twenty-four (24) semester hours in accounting or auditing, this may have included up to 6 hours of business law as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes a certificate as a Certified Public Accounting or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that included at least four (4) years of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge as described above.
 I have a combination of education and experience that included completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours; provided that you can demonstrate that you have successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, and/or have the education, training, and experience that fully meets the specified requirements as described above.
 None of the above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


3.
Which of the following describes your accounting experience?

 A. Analyzed financial statements and related accounting data to identify trends, variances, and significant financial conditions.
 B. Performed cost accounting analyses involving program costs, cost allocations, and related financial information.
 C. Performed general ledger accounting, including reviewing account activity, preparing adjustments, and reconciling balances.
 D. Performed accrual accounting activities to recognize financial activity in the appropriate accounting period.
 E. Performed property accounting activities involving the recording, classification, and reporting of property, plant, and equipment.
 F. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience evaluating accounting information?

 Evaluated complex accounting information from multiple sources, identified significant financial implications, and developed conclusions used to support management decisions.
 Analyzed accounting information to identify significant trends, variances, and financial impacts and summarized the results for management use.
 Reviewed accounting information, identified significant changes or discrepancies, and documented matters requiring additional analysis.
 None of the above.


5.
What level of experience have you demonstrated reviewing accounting operations?

 Evaluated accounting operations to identify significant financial or operational issues, assessed their impact, and developed recommendations to improve accounting processes.
 Reviewed accounting operations, identified process deficiencies, and recommended corrective actions based on the results.
 Reviewed accounting processes against established requirements and documented identified deficiencies.
 None of the above.


6.
Which statement best represents your experience establishing priorities for accounting or financial management work?

 Established and adjusted priorities for multiple complex accounting assignments based on organizational impact, changing requirements, available resources, and critical deadlines.
 Prioritized multiple accounting assignments based on established objectives, workload requirements, and deadlines and adjusted priorities when conditions changed.
 Organized assigned accounting work according to established priorities, milestones, and completion dates.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following describes your experience managing accounting workloads and program requirements?

 A. Established milestones and completion schedules for accounting assignments.
 B. Coordinated accounting work involving multiple organizational components.
 C. Adjusted work plans in response to changing requirements and competing priorities.
 D. Monitored assignment progress against established milestones and deadlines.
 E. Evaluated completed accounting work to identify required follow-up actions.
 F. None of the above.


8.
Which response most closely reflects your experience evaluating accounting projects or program initiatives?

 Evaluated complex accounting initiatives against established objectives, identified risks affecting program results, and recommended changes to improve program effectiveness.
 Evaluated accounting initiatives against established milestones and objectives and recommended adjustments when results differed from expectations.
 Tracked accounting initiatives against established milestones and documented conditions affecting completion.
 None of the above.


9.
Which of the following accounting guidance have you applied in performing accounting work?

 A. United States Standard General Ledger (USSGL).
 B. Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) standards.
 C. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
 D. Department of the Treasury regulations and accounting guidance.
 E. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) accounting and financial management guidance.
 F. Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) provisions applicable to accounting operations.
 G. None of the above.


10.
Which statement best describes your experience applying accounting principles and standards when established guidance required interpretation?

 Interpreted multiple authoritative accounting requirements, evaluated their application to complex or unusual financial matters, and determined a supportable accounting treatment.
 Interpreted applicable accounting requirements and determined appropriate accounting treatment for financial transactions requiring analysis beyond routine procedures.
 Applied established accounting principles and standards to recurring financial transactions and reporting matters.
 None of the above.


11.
Which of the following best describes your experience applying accounting principles throughout the accounting cycle?

 Evaluated accounting activity throughout the accounting cycle, resolved significant accounting issues, and determined whether resulting financial information accurately reflected underlying transactions.
 Applied accounting principles to account adjustments, reconciliations, closing activities, and preparation of financial information.
 Applied established accounting principles when recording, classifying, and reviewing financial transactions.
 None of the above.


12.
Which statement best represents your experience researching difficult accounting issues?

 Researched complex accounting issues with limited precedent, evaluated authoritative guidance and financial information, developed alternative approaches, and recommended a supportable resolution.
 Researched difficult accounting issues, evaluated applicable requirements and financial information, and recommended corrective action.
 Researched accounting issues using established technical guidance and supporting financial information to identify an appropriate course of action.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of the following problem-solving functions have you performed when addressing accounting or financial management issues?

 A. Evaluated information from multiple sources to determine the underlying cause of an accounting issue.
 B. Analyzed conflicting financial information to determine its accuracy and relevance.
 C. Developed alternative approaches for resolving complex accounting issues.
 D. Evaluated the potential impact of proposed solutions on accounting operations, financial reporting, or internal controls.
 E. Recommended corrective actions supported by accounting analysis and applicable requirements.
 F. None of the above.


14.
Which of the following best describes your experience addressing accounting findings identified through reviews or other oversight activities?

 Evaluated significant accounting findings, determined underlying causes and organizational impacts, developed corrective alternatives, and recommended actions designed to prevent recurrence.
 Analyzed accounting findings, identified contributing conditions, and recommended corrective actions addressing the identified deficiencies.
 Reviewed accounting findings and supporting information and identified corrective actions consistent with established requirements.
 None of the above.


15.
What level of experience have you demonstrated developing solutions to accounting process weaknesses?

 Analyzed complex process weaknesses affecting accounting operations, evaluated alternative solutions and associated risks, and developed recommendations addressing the underlying causes.
 Analyzed accounting process weaknesses, determined contributing causes, and developed corrective recommendations.
 Identified accounting process weaknesses and documented relevant information needed to support corrective action.
 None of the above.


16.
Which of the following written products have you prepared to communicate accounting or financial management information?

 A. Accounting policies, manuals, or technical guidance.
 B. Standard operating procedures, desk procedures, or work instructions.
 C. Reports presenting accounting findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
 D. Decision documents, briefing papers, or issue papers addressing accounting matters.
 E. Written responses addressing findings from audits, oversight reviews, or management reviews.
 F. None of the above.


17.
Which statement best describes your experience preparing technical accounting information in writing?

 Prepared comprehensive technical products that synthesized complex accounting information, explained significant findings and implications, and presented supportable recommendations to senior management or other decision-makers.
 Prepared technical products explaining accounting issues, findings, conclusions, and recommended actions for management or other stakeholders.
 Prepared written summaries explaining accounting information, findings, and supporting documentation for the intended audience.
 None of the above.


18.
Which response best represents your experience developing written accounting guidance?

 Developed accounting policies or technical guidance addressing complex or emerging requirements and translated authoritative requirements into implementation instructions for use across organizational components.
 Developed or revised accounting procedures and technical instructions to address changes in accounting requirements and operating practices.
 Prepared accounting instructions and procedural documentation based on established policies and requirements.
 None of the above.


19.
Identify the spreadsheet functions you have used to perform accounting analysis or financial management work.

 A. Developed macros or queries to automate repetitive accounting tasks or analyze financial data.
 B. Linked data between spreadsheets or other data sources to support accounting analysis.
 C. Created pivot tables to summarize and analyze financial information.
 D. Applied filtering and sorting functions to identify specific financial transactions, trends, or exceptions.
 E. Developed formulas and functions to calculate, compare, or validate financial information.
 F. Imported or exported financial data between spreadsheets and other applications.
 G. Used spreadsheet functions to monitor financial data for accuracy and identify discrepancies.
 H. None of the above.


20.
Which of the following software or automated tools have you used to perform accounting or financial management work?

 A. Enterprise resource planning or automated accounting systems to process, research, analyze, or report financial information.
 B. Financial reporting or business intelligence applications to analyze accounting data and produce management information.
 C. Database or query tools to retrieve, compare, and analyze financial information.
 D. Spreadsheet applications to perform accounting calculations, reconciliations, and financial analyses.
 E. Document management or collaboration applications to maintain accounting documentation and support financial work.
 F. None of the above.


21.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙