Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SS-1611-ACAD-26-12998323-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority - Residency
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.
 
Field Unit Local Hiring for Acadia National Park is defined as 75 miles from the Acadia National Park located in Bar Harbor, ME. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?
 
If you select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-05 position with the National Park Service. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.


1.
From the descriptions below select the one response that best describes how you have the ability to do the work of a Maintenance Worker WG-4749-05 without more than normal supervision. If you do not answer the question, or do not meet this screen out, you will be considered ineligible. Read the following statement and select from answers A, B, C, or D that best describes your level of training and/or experience. THERE MUST BE EVIDENCE FOR YOUR RESPONSE IN YOUR RESUME/APPLICATION.
 I have worked as a Laborer cleaning sinks, toilets, sweeping and mopping floors, and cleaning windows. I have unclogged sinks, toilets, and drains. I have replaced fuses, light bulbs, and checked breakers. I removed trees, brush and limbs. I performed grounds maintenance work including mowing, weed eating, and placement of landscaping timbers. I performed these duties in campgrounds, picnic areas, visitor centers, or other park facilities and grounds. I assisted journeyman level employees in completing maintenance projects which included painting and carpentry work.
 I have worked as a laborer cleaning sinks, toilets, sweeping and mopping floors, replacing fuses and light bulbs, mowing, and weed eating, replacing tables, grills and tent pads.
 I have performed laborer tasks such as cleaning restrooms, unclogging sinks and toilets, replacing fuses and light bulbs, mowing and weed whacking.
 I do not meet any of the above descriptions.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙