Position Title
Histopathology Technologist (Quality Management)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12840906-26-BC Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 25, 2025 to Thursday, December 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Basic Requirements: All qualified applicants must meet the following basic requirements for the position being filled / 0601- Histopathology Technologist.  Please respond "yes" or "no" to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a full four-year course of study from an accredited college or
university, leading to a bachelor's or higher degree, that included a major study in an
academic field related to health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of
a histopathology technologist, such as, but not limited to clinical biology, microbiology,
physiology, pre-medical, medical lab technology, chemistry, immunology, physiology,
anatomy;
OR,
(2) Baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited college/university with a
combination of 30 semester hours (45 quarter hours) of biology and chemistry (must
include credit hours in both);
OR,
(3) Successful completion of two years of progressively higher level graduate education,
leading to a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree, with a major study in an
academic field related to health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the position
of histopathology technologist, such as clinical biology, microbiology, physiology, premedical,
medical lab technology, chemistry, immunology, physiology, anatomy.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have
been submitted to a private organization approved by the American Society for Clinical
Pathology (ASCP) that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials,
and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in
conventional U.S. programs.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a current histotechnologist (HTL) certification given by the ASCP Board of Certification?
 Yes
 No


In addition to meeting the Basic Requirement above, you must also meet the following additional requirements. Select the statements below that best describes your experience to meet the specific qualification requirements for the Histopathology Technologist position.


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-11 Histopathology Technologist Experience: Do you meet one of the following experience or education?

(a) One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level, which is
directly related to the position to be filled; or
(b) Three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education that included a
clinical practicum; or
(c) A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in histopathology technology or a directly
related field that included a clinical practicum.

Experience at the GS-9 level- The histopathology technologist independently performs a full range of routine and specialized tests. Utilize information technology systems to apply histopathology techniques and broad scientific principles from the fields of biology, chemistry, anatomy and physiology.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-11 Histopathology Technologist:
In addition to meeting the experience for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
(a) Comprehensive knowledge of laboratory quality control/assurance policies,
quality management standards, procedures and principles, as well as safety
practices and regulations.
(b) Knowledge of accrediting agencies and regulatory requirements pertaining to
laboratory operations and ensuring continuous readiness for inspections.
(c) Knowledge of laboratory operations and relationships to the organization.
(d) Ability to analyze quality assurance data and resolve complex data issues.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙