Position Title
Social Insurance Specialist (Disability Processing Specialist) Direct Hire
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12910626-DHA26-RQ Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Mar 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Los Angeles, CA
 D. Oakland, CA
 E. Pasadena, CA
 F. Richmond, CA
 G. San Diego, CA
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Tampa, FL
 J. Atlanta, GA
 K. Chicago, IL
 L. Woodlawn, MD
 M. Boston, MA
 N. Detroit, MI
 O. Kansas City, MO
 P. Saint Louis, MO
 Q. Iselin, NJ
 R. Albuquerque, NM
 S. New York, NY
 T. Queens, NY
 U. Raleigh, NC
 V. Philadelphia, PA
 W. Dallas, TX
 X. Seattle, WA


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer yes or no to statement 2. Your response will determine if you are qualified for the Social Insurance Specialist (DI), GS-12 position.


1.
I have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service by the closing date of the announcement. Specialized experience is experience performing work that involves  1) making medical determinations of disability at the initial, reconsideration, and/or medical continuing disability review level; and 2) reviewing, developing, examining, investigating, and/or adjudicating and authorizing complex claims for medical disability programs; and 3) knowledge of claims analysis and adjudication of medical disabilities, medical terms and findings, causes of diseases, treatment methods and probable results, and relation of physical impairments to ability and vocational analysis; and 4) developing and evaluating pertinent medical facts and evidence to apply and interpret state and federal laws, regulations, policies, precedents and other criteria for physical and mental impairment disability cases.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙