Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
Announcement Number
ST-13045586-26-MK Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. 
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50  (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2) and
• Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To meet the Qualifications Requirements for General Attorney, GS-13, select the option that best describes your experience background:
 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in or related to the work of this position that provided the specific knowledges, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirement described above.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. NOTE: If you choose not to answer the narrative question(s), you may enter "N/A" as your response.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Please provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
For the four essay question responses above, I certify that I used my own words, and did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).

 Yes
 No


7.
This position is only open to current federal employees qualifying as Status Candidates in the Excepted Service? Are you a current federal employee in the Excepted Service?
 Yes
 No


8.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


9.
Select the response that best describes the rating of record for your most recent performance appraisal:

 Fully Successful (or equivalent) or higher
 Less than Fully Successful (or equivalent)
 I have never received a performance appraisal.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
Please look at the qualification requirements that are stated in this vacancy announcement. Does your resume clearly contain this information in order to determine you are qualified for the position?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙