Position Title
High Voltage Electrician
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1549-YOSE-26-12857151-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 08, 2026 to Jan 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


2.
The duties of this position involve operation of vehicles that require the operator to possess a Commercial Class A Driver's License (CDL). Must be able to obtain and maintain within the first year of employment.

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement.
 I currently possess a Class A Commercial Driver’s License.
 I do not currently possess a Commercial Driver’s License, but I possess a valid state driver’s license and can obtain a Class A CDL within 1 year of start date.
 I do not currently possess either a valid state driver’s license, or have the ability to obtain a Class A CDL.


3.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.


Assessment 1
This position includes a screen-out element and a selective placement factor that are critical to successful performance.
The screen-out element measures your ability to do the work of a High Voltage Electrician without more than normal supervision (Element 1166) at the WG-08 and WG-10 levels.
The selective placement factor for the WG-10 level requires the ability to obtain and maintain a Commercial Driver's License (CDL) within one (1) year of employment.

Your responses must be supported by your resume and application materials. If your responses are not supported, you may be found ineligible, or your score may be adjusted.
For each question, select the one response that best describes your background and experience.



1.
Screen-Out Element - WG-08 Level (Element 1166: Ability to do the work of a High Voltage Electrician without more than normal supervision).

Choose the one statement that best describes your experience performing High Voltage Electrician work at the WG-08 level or equivalent. Your answer must be supported by your resume.

 I do not have training or experience performing high voltage electrician work as described in the job opportunity announcement.
 I have only performed duties as a helper, laborer, or trainee assisting a High Voltage Electrician and worked under close, constant supervision. I have not performed the full range of high voltage electrician duties.
 I have performed some high voltage electrician tasks (such as assisting with installation, testing, repair, or maintenance of high voltage equipment), but I have not completed lineman/lineworker training or at least 500 hours of on-the-job training, and I have not performed the full range of duties independently.
 I have completed formal lineman/lineworker training or I have at least 500 hours of on-the-job training in high voltage electrical work, and I have experience performing duties such as installing, testing, repairing, and maintaining high voltage equipment (e.g., generators, transformers, regulators, air switches, circuit breakers, control equipment, and substation equipment), and working in substations or on underground and/or overhead high voltage primary distribution systems. I performed these duties with normal supervision and did not require constant guidance.
 I meet all of the experience described in response D and I have frequently been relied upon to carry out these assignments independently, determining work methods and sequences with minimal supervision, at a level equivalent to WG-08.


2.
Screen-Out Element - WG-10 Level (Element 1166: Ability to do the work of a High Voltage Electrician without more than normal supervision).

Choose the one statement that best describes your experience performing High Voltage Electrician work at the WG-10 (journey) level or equivalent. Your answer must be supported by your resume.
 I do not have experience performing High Voltage Electrician work at the journey (WG-10 or equivalent) level.
 I have performed some high voltage electrician duties but primarily as a helper, trainee, or under close supervision. I have not independently performed the full range of duties of a journey-level High Voltage Electrician.
 I have performed some of the duties of a High Voltage Electrician, but I have not regularly worked independently, and I have not performed the full range of journey-level duties as described below.
 I have experience performing most of the duties of a journey-level High Voltage Electrician, including installing, testing, repairing, and maintaining high voltage equipment (such as generators, photovoltaic systems, transformers, regulators, air switches, oil and vacuum circuit breakers, control equipment, and substation equipment), and working in substations and on underground or overhead high voltage primary distribution systems. I performed this work with normal supervision and carried out many assignments independently.
 I have journey-level experience at WG-10 or equivalent independently performing the full range of High Voltage Electrician duties described in response D, including determining work methods and sequences without more than normal supervision, and being relied upon as a fully proficient journey-level High Voltage Electrician.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙