Position Title
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12947266-AF-26-130 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O1 to O4 in the Pennsylvania National Guard or are you willing and able to meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 193rd AOG
 AOC 2: NG employees in the 193 Special Operations Wing (This includes 193rd SOW, 193rd RSG, 193rd AOG, 211th EIS, 271st CCS, 201st RHS, 112th ACS, 203rd Weather Flight, 193rd SOW Det 2, 148th ASOS, PA ANG HQ DET 1)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience, education or training in managing or directing, one or more programs, including appropriate supporting service organizations? Do you have supervisory, managerial, professional or technical work experience and/or training which has provided knowledge of management principles, practices, methods and techniques? Do you have experience using computer and automation systems?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have 36 months experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions? Do you have experience preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence? Do you have experience evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various resources? Do you have experience utilizing the organization, its mission and the organizational staff procedures? Do you have experience using quantitative and qualitative techniques for analyzing and measuring the effectiveness, efficiency and productivity of administrative and technical programs? Do you have experience developing the mission and work processes of programs throughout the military organization and multi-level agencies? Do you have experience in analytical and investigative techniques? Do you have experience in managing the function of the work to be performed? Do you have experience leading, directing and assigning work of personnel?

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙