Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12812098-26-MV Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 26, 2025 to Wednesday, December 3, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs.  Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.



To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. NOTE: Applicants pending the completion of the registration requirement may be selected (GS-07 or GS-09 only) and given a one-year temporary appointment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Registration/Certification. Are you currently or will you be registered with the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing branch of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics formerly known as the American Dietetic Association (ADA) as a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) or Registered Dietitian (RD)?

Note: Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN/RD credential. Non-credentialed Dietitians who otherwise meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a full-time temporary appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2). May only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 level and may not be promoted/converted until they obtain their RDN credential.
- Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following:
o Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college or university or foreign equivalent (refer to ii below). Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND® and meet ACEND®'s International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam.
o Completed an ACEND® accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND® accredited programs are located on the ACEND® website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory.
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please indicate your registration type (RDN or RD), issue date, and/or date you expect to take the registration exam.


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


3.
GS-07 Dietitian (Clinical) (Entry Level Developmental) - Do you meet the basic requirements for this position at the GS-7 grade level?

Assignment.  Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments for patients with lower acuity using the NCP while developing skills to apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines. Clinical Dietitians learn to interpret research, apply whole health principles and develop patient-centered goals. They develop skills in accurate record keeping of clinical activities and complete patient encounters using approved systems. They collaborate with the Food Operations Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience and ensure patient satisfaction.
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-09 Dietitian (Clinical) (Developmental) 

Experience/Education Requirement: For the GS-9, you must have one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7). OR Education. You must have a Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college.

Assignment. Dietitian (Clinical) develop skills in applying evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpreting research and utilizing whole health principles to develop patient-centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. They maintain accurate record keeping of daily clinical activities and patient encounters using approved systems. They collect data related to performance improvement activities within Nutrition and Food Services (NFS) and assist in implementing new initiatives.

In addition to meeting the experience or education above, you must demonstrate the following KSAs:

- Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
- Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
- Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
- Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
- Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
- Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
- Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.

Please select the below response that best reflects your experience for meeting the position of Dietitian (Clinical) at the GS-9 grade level.
 I have at least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7).
 I have a Master’s degree from a regionally accredited university or college in the field of dietetics or closely related field.
 None of the above.


5.
GS-11 Dietitian (Clinical) (Full Performance Level)

Experience. To qualify for the GS-11, do you possess at least 1 year of experience as an RDN/RD equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09)?

Assignment. Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) full performance level position. Clinical Dietitians conduct comprehensive nutrition assessments for Veterans using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation), assuring high-quality nutrition care. They apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpret research and utilize whole health principles to develop patient- 8 centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. They are accountable for independent and accurate record keeping, autonomous coverage of daily clinical activities and efficiently completing patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians are knowledgeable of and ensure work accomplishments comply with TJC and other accrediting agency standards and ensure continuous improvement of safe and quality care. They collect and analyze data related to performance improvement activities within NFS, lead activities in the implementation of new initiatives and collaborate with stakeholders. Clinical Dietitians frequently collaborate with the food service section and leadership staff to enhance the Veteran's dining experience, support patient satisfaction and serve as a liaison between clinical units and the Food Service Section.

In addition to meeting the experience above, you must demonstrate the following KSAs:

- Skill in delivering patient care using the Nutrition Care Process (NCP) (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring, and evaluation).
- Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
- Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
- Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
- Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
- Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I understand the information provided above and certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify this information and do not wish to be considered for this position.


REMINDER SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action: If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action. The SF-50 must identify your position, title, series, grade, step, tenure, and type of service (Competitive or Excepted). If you have previously held a higher grade and are applying based on that grade, you must provide a copy of the SF-50 showing you held the higher grade IN ADDITION to your last or most recent SF-50 indicating proof of status.
 
Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee.
An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.
Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.
General Adjustment SF-50's do not provide the information to reflect time-in-grade requirement has been met and therefore cannot be the only SF-50.
If you are currently serving in a Hybrid Title 38 position, your SF-50's must reflect you have been in the position longer than one year.
Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
 
RESUME REMINDER: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE.
 
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.  This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position. It is beneficial to add:  education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion.
 
Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered.
 
Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title;
Duties (be as detailed as possible);
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008);
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week);
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙