Position Title
Controller
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
SES-12914772-26-KA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 23, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a current or have you been within the last 5 years a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career-SES employee in the executive branch?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current career member of the Senior Executive Service?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a graduate of an Official Personnel Management certified Candidate Development Program (SESCDP)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you reinstatement eligible to the SES?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief all the information I am submitting for this vacancy announcement is true, complete, and made in good faith. I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting experience and/or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in/or with my application may be grounds for disqualifying me from further consideration or termination from Federal Service. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punished by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙