Position Title
Medical Instument Technician (Hemodialysis)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12847157-26-TJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 9, 2025 to Tuesday, December 23, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
GS-6 Experience: I possess at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-5) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled of operating and monitoring dialysis systems for chronic patients; checking patient condition and determining the proper treatment procedures, technique, and machine adjustments; understanding medical treatment for patients with renal failure; administering prescribed medication and observing the patient for desired action or adverse reaction; and recognizing and reacting to signs and symptoms that signal the onset of complications of dialysis including hypotension, disequilibrium, seizures, and arrhythmias.
In addition, I demonstrate the following KSAs:
-Skill in setting up, operating, and performing calibrations as required on a variety of dialysis equipment.
-Skill in performing and interpreting test results (dialysate chemistries, water treatment testing for contaminates, etc.) including the ability to analyze deviations from the expected norm and responding appropriately.
-Knowledge of American Association of Medical Instrumentation (AMMI) standards and unit policies as they relate to water treatment.
-Knowledge of physiological and psychological changes and conditions related to end stage renal disease.
-Ability to calculate dialysis baths according to the physician's orders per patient by mixing critical concentrates, i.e., calcium, potassium, and bicarbonate.
-Knowledge of Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS).
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-7 Experience: I possess at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-6) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge the equipment, standard procedures, and typical machine problems and/or patient reactions to treatment. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Ability to assist the physician in more complex procedures such as central venous catheter insertion.
Ability to assist in training patients in home/self-care by teaching components of machine operation including water treatment and monitoring patients for compliance.
Ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower graded technicians.
Ability to analyze deviations from the expected, determine whether the deviations are machine or patient related, and respond according to the findings.
 yes
 no


4.
GS-8 Experience: I possess at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-7) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of the more complex procedures, the pharmacology related to this occupation, and knowledge of related acute disorders and diseases and their effects on organs and methods of treatments and serving as a member of a dialysis team performing dialysis on acutely ill patients including those within an intensive care setting. Assignments involve performing both peritoneal and hemodialysis procedures. Participating in percutaneous renal biopsies, watching the patient during the procedure and properly processing the specimen. Assisting the physician in peritoneal catheter insertions and observing the patient for vital signs and provides post-operative care. Providing instruction and monitors patients for home dialysis. Performing training of physicians, nurses, and technicians on hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis techniques.
In addition, I demonstrate the following KSAs:
-Knowledge of the hemodialysis process and equipment needed for home/self-care including knowledge of common machine problems and repairs to such equipment.
-Knowledge of the equipment and procedures for peritoneal dialysis.
-Ability to assist the physician with percutaneous renal biopsies and peritoneal catheter insertion.
-Ability to provide instruction to dialysis patients in home/self-care and in the maintenance of the equipment.
-Ability to provide instruction for physicians, nurses, and other personnel in dialysis procedures, equipment operation and maintenance, etc.

 yes
 no


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙