Position Title
FORESTRY TECHNICIAN-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-046202-12853685-JDH Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 16, 2025 to Jan 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Forestry Technician, NJ0462-02. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Forestry Technician at the NJ-0462-02 grade level or equivalent pay band. Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 (or higher) grade level or NH-01 equivalent pay systems (may have been obtained in the federal service, military, or public sector) which includes forestry aid or technician work; engineering, range, or soil conservation technician work that involved the application of cultural, resource conservation, or land management practices on non forest or ranch lands when combined with knowledge of forestry operations and equipment; farming or ranching work that involved application of cultural and soil and water conservation practices, including safety and use of equipment, and that provided a basic understanding of land use; forest or range fire control, prevention, or suppression work.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor’s degree (a) with major study in forestry, range management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position, or (b) that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses in forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources (except marine fisheries and oceanography), outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science. No more than 9 semester hours in mathematics is creditable. NOTE: You must submit copies of your college transcripts.
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience described in “A” above; however, I have completed in excess of the first 60 semester hours of a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree which is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements as described in “B” above. Therefore, I have a combination of experience as described in "A" and education as described in "B" above. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙