Position Title
Supervisory Industrial Engineer
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12949460-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Basic Requirements:

A. Degree: Engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
OR
B. Combination of education and experience -- college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following:


1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions.

2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.


3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A.


4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor's degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.)

You must meet the minimum basic educational and/or work experience requirements for professional engineering positions in the federal government. Choose one answer which best describes your educational/work experience background for a professional engineering position.
 I have earned a bachelor's degree or higher in professional engineering. The curriculum was : 1 in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum, or 2 included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a- statics, dynamics, b- strength of materials (stress- strain relationships), c-fluid mechanics, hydraulics, d- thermodynamics, e- electrical fields and circuits, f- nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties), and g. any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: Professional registration, Written Test, Specified academic courses, or Related curriculum. (For more information, please see the "Qualifications" section of this Job Opportunity Announcement)
 I have none of the above.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


3.
Specialized experience for the GS-14 is one year (52 weeks) of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position as listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:
Experience providing leadership and program oversight as an Industrial Engineer in a manufacturing environment.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-13 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have experience leading or supervising an organization comprised of subordinate employees and supervisors in an industrial setting?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.)


6.
Choose the statement that best describes your skill/s in handling policies.
 I have represented and negotiated the policy positions of officials related to program policies and procedures.
 I have designed, developed and implemented program policies, procedures, standards and practices in accordance with Federal statutes.
 I have facilitated needed policy changes and modified processes in response to changing policies and management assessments.
 I have analyzed and interpreted policy guidance contained in legislation, regulations, and policy directives.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
From the following list, select all of the formal supervisory or team lead duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis. 
 A. Interviewed candidates for positions.
 B. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 C. Encouraging employees to perform accurate and timely work to produce a quality result.
 D. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 E. Organizing tasks for subordinate workers using judgment regarding individual abilities.
 F. Instructing, guiding, training and reviewing the work of others.
 G. Worked with employees to identify their developmental and training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 H. Preparing formal performance appraisals/evaluating performance of employees.
 I. Coached employees on performance issues.
 J. Followed necessary steps when an employee’s performance did not improve.
 K. Developed performance improvement plans.
 L. Administering progressive disciplinary actions to correct performance or behaviors as applicable.
 M. Resolved office conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 N. Resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 O. Resolving informal grievances.
 P. Oversaw the performance of other staff on a team, even though not as a formal supervisor.
 Q. None of the above.


8.
Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience developing, leading, directing, and motivating a diverse staff considering individual goals, values and sensitivities.
 Provided broad guidance to people to prioritize work and then accomplish it in a timely, satisfactory manner.
 As a manager, serve as acting supervisor on occasion, and assist the supervisor in developing and leading others. Lead, direct and motivate team members to accomplish specific projects.
 Lead a large workforce of widely varying occupations and knowledge levels.
 Supervise professional and administrative staff in the design and delivery of programs and projects.
 No experience in developing, leading, directing and motivating a diverse staff.


9.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


10.
Which of the following have you done as a routine part of your professional work experience in leading manufacturing projects or project teams?
 A. Establishing program objectives.
 B. Establish priorities among multiple projects.
 C. Establish timelines for multiple projects.
 D. Assign tasks and monitor performance.
 E. Make resource decisions for competing projects.
 F. Coordinating material and work force needs for specific jobs.
 G. Anticipate and resolve problems.
 H. Meeting daily goals and priorities (directing operations).
 I. Meet deadlines.
 J. Organizing and communicating changes in programs.
 K. Preparing accurate reports to evaluate resources and work schedules.
 L. Use project management software.
 M. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinate managers, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 N. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments and the capabilities of employees.
 O. Implementing safety policies and a safe work environment.
 P. Contract management.
 Q. Close out projects.
 R. None of the above.


11.
From the choices below, please choose your level of experience in the resolution of material and production issues that have an impact on product quality and performance.
 I have directed an organizations program designed to resolve material and production issues that have an impact on product quality and performance.
 I have served as a team leader engaged in the resolution of material and production issues that have an impact on product quality and performance.
 I have independently resolved material and production issues that have an impact on product quality and performance.
 I have served as a team member engaged in the resolution of material and production issues that have an impact on product quality and performance.
 I do not have experience in the resolution of material and production issues that have an impact on product quality and performance.


12.
Select the statement that best describes your leadership skills for a team where you were responsible for identifying, distributing, balancing/changing workloads and tasks among employees in accordance with established schedules/programs, workflow, skill level and specialization:
 I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor, manager or senior employee to ensure compliance with correct procedures.
 These tasks have been a central or major part of my daily work.
 I have performed these tasks routinely, and I have trained others in performance of these tasks, and/ or others have consulted me for assistance in performing them.
 None of the above


13.
From the choices below, please choose the answer that best describes your experience utilizing lean continuous improvement.
 I have managed lean improvement projects.
 I have led lean improvement teams.
 I have participated in a lean improvement project.
 I have general knowledge of lean improvement.
 None of the above.


14.
Are you certified in Lean Six Sigma?
 Yes, I am certified Master Black Belt.
 Yes, I am certified Black Belt.
 Yes, I am a certified Green Belt.
 No, but I have been trained.
 I have not been trained in Six Sigma.


15.
Indicate your level of experience resolving technical issues and risks related to industrial engineering.
 I have advised and instructed others in carrying out this task and I am consulted by colleagues and/or superiors in unusual situations.
 I have limited experience in performing this task. I have had exposure to this work, but would require additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this task with minimal supervision or guidance in routine situations.
 I have experience independently performing this task and have assisted others. I only seek guidance in unusual situations.
 I do not have experience performing this task.


16.
From the list below, select all of the tasks you have utilized to facilitate maintaining and updating an annual schedule.
 A. I have Formal Project or Program Manager duties and have experience with an analytical tool such as Microsoft Project or similar program.
 B. I have managed priorities through a spreadsheet or table.
 C. I have had staff that manage priorities.
 D. I have been provided with priorities and work schedules by superiors.
 E. None of the above.


17.
Select the statement that best describes your knowledge of metal working processes, modern production methods, industrial production machinery/equipment to include physical properties of metals and products.
 I have worked as an Engineering Supervisor and have experience with metal working processes and physical properties of metals, modern production methods and industrial production machinery to include robotics, packaging, inventory control, production machinery and related equipment.
 I have worked as a supervisor and have experience with metal working processes, physical properties of metals, production methods and industrial production machinery that include robotics, packaging, inventory control.
 I have performed metal working processes and have experience with physical properties of metals, industrial production methods and machinery/equipment and have worked with others using robotics, packaging, and inventory control.
 None of the above.


18.
Select the statement(s) that best describe your experience in performing analytical and evaluative activities, studies, or projects.
 A. Using fact-finding and analytical practices to resolve work problems.
 B. Providing written comments to supervisor on proposed policies and/or procedures on whether changes are practical, effective and suitable in manufacturing goals.
 C. Using qualitative and quantitative methods, and other statistical approaches and techniques to assess program effectiveness.
 D. Working with management to identify, evaluate, and/or resolve problems with manufacturing issues.
 E. Interviewing a member of a group/team to obtain information on organizational missions, functions and procedures.
 F. None of the Above.


19.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.)


20.
This position requires establishing and maintaining effective relationships with customers, agency officials and personnel responsible for critical policy issues in the public and private sector. Choose the statement(s) that describe the services you provided as a regular part of your job. Select all that apply.
 A. Made recommendations to senior level personnel on the best course of action based upon the review and analysis of documents, including the provision of summaries for such documents.
 B. Maintained and conducted effective contacts and acted as liaison with stakeholders regarding analyses you performed on substantive issues.
 C. Participated in meetings with senior management level or senior staff preparing policy analyses, background information, fact sheets and other material concerning substantive technical issues.
 D. Responded verbally to inquiries or requests for information regarding topics for which you provided analyses.
 E. Verbally explained technical information regarding topics for which you provided analyses to a variety of audiences.
 F. None of the above.


21.
From the following list, select the experience you have resolving formal complaints and conflicts among employees to minimize any negative impacts within a program or division.
 I have limited experience in performing this task. I have had exposure to this work, but would require additional guidance, instruction or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this task with minimal supervision or guidance in routine situations.
 I have independently performed this task and have assisted. I only seek guidance in carrying out this task in unusual situations.
 I have advised and instructed others in carrying out this task. I am consulted by colleagues and/or superiors to carry out this task in unusual situations.
 I do not have experience performing this task.


22.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


23.
Choose all of the examples that apply to your experience analyzing data and information when preparing written reports.
 A. I have analyzed data or statistics to ensure validity, reliability, and absence of bias in written documents that I prepared.
 B. I have been the primary author of briefings, articles, studies, or reports.
 C. I have reviewed reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity or expression, and appropriateness for intended audiences.
 D. I have composed explanations or justification decisions, conclusions, findings, or recommendations.
 E. I have analyzed trends and other information to: (a) identify issues, problems, challenges, opportunities, and options and (b) formulate strategies and recommendations that I incorporated into written reports that I prepared.
 F. None of the above.


24.
Which of the following types of documents have you written?
 A. Annual work plans
 B. Reports on performance metrics
 C. Statements of Work for contracting purposes
 D. Counseling or formal letters addressing employee performance or conduct
 E. Individual Development Plans
 F. Standard Operating Procedures for a variety of manufacturing processes
 G. Policies pertaining to manufacturing
 H. Talking points
 I. Executive briefings/presentations
 J. None of the above


25.
Choose the statement that best describes your competence in establishing, maintaining, and fostering positive working relationships with supervisors, managers and employees that provides effective, clear and decisive information. Include oral presentations and how you expressed facts and ideas in an organized manner:
 I have performed these tasks on the job under close supervision by a supervisor/ manager or with immediate supervisor.
 I have performed these tasks on the job with upper-level management as a central or major part of my daily work.
 I have performed these tasks routinely, and I have trained others in their performance.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙