Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDB-26-12894728-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 27, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Manager at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes advising on project management, strategic planning, and business development to include development of near and long-term strategies and methods for institutionalization and sustainment; developing and implementing strategic plans in support of the Programs and Project Management Business Process; and conducting research and analysis into strategic initiatives to explore alternatives and concepts for developing changes to an organizations strategic direction.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.
Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
Your division is implementing a new strategic initiative with a $5M budget and 18-month timeline. Three months in, you discover that two district offices are significantly behind schedule and over budget due to inadequate project management practices. The Division Commander expects a status briefing next week. How do you address this accountability issue?
 Direct both districts to submit immediate status reports explaining delays, provide additional resources where possible, and brief the Commander on current challenges while emphasizing the overall initiative's strategic importance.
 Reassign project managers from the underperforming districts immediately, absorb the budget overruns from other division funds, and report to the Commander that the initiative is proceeding as planned with minor adjustments.
 Schedule individual meetings with district commanders to discuss performance gaps, request detailed recovery plans within one week, and establish bi-weekly check-ins to monitor progress while preparing an honest status report for the Commander.
 Focus primarily on the districts that are performing well in your briefing, mention the challenges as temporary setbacks, and privately counsel the underperforming district commanders about meeting expectations going forward.
 Immediately contact the division commander and report the poor performing districts. Request the commander direct the district commander to assign a new project manager.


2.
You are leading the development of the Division's five-year strategic plan while simultaneously managing a critical process improvement project and preparing for a major HQUSACE inspection. Your staff is already stretched thin, and you have just received an urgent request from the Regional Management Board to conduct a comprehensive workforce analysis. How do you prioritize and delegate these competing demands?
 Assign the workforce analysis to an already busy staff member as an additional duty, continue personal involvement in all infrastructure projects, and delegate strategic plan development to junior staff with minimal guidance.
 Convene a staff meeting to discuss capacity and priorities, delegate the workforce analysis to a qualified team member, maintain personal oversight of the strategic plan development, and assign process improvement project oversight to district team member that volunteered to lead the project.
 Attempt to personally manage all four initiatives simultaneously, work extended hours to maintain direct control, and decline to delegate any significant responsibilities to ensure quality standards are maintained.
 Assess each task's strategic impact and deadlines, delegate the workforce analysis to your most experienced analyst with clear parameters, assign strategic plan components to subject matter experts, and personally focus on the HQUSACE inspection preparation. Verify your plan with the Business Director (your boss).
 Request timeline extensions for the workforce analysis and strategic plan, focus personal attention on the HQUSACE inspection, and delegate process improvement project monitoring to another peer office manager with weekly status reports.


3.
During a heated Regional Management Board meeting, a district commander publicly criticizes your division's new business process implementation, claiming it's causing significant delays in their critical military construction projects. Other board members begin expressing similar concerns, and tensions are escalating. How do you respond to maintain professionalism while addressing the concerns?
 Listen to all concerns without interruption, validate the challenges they're experiencing, provide a brief overview of the expected long-term benefits, and promise to review the implementation timeline for possible adjustments.
 Point out that the new processes are mandatory HQUSACE directives, remind the board that resistance to change is counterproductive, and emphasize that districts must comply regardless of temporary inconveniences.
 Defend the new processes by citing policy requirements and expected efficiencies, acknowledge that change is difficult, and suggest that districts need more time to adapt to the improved business practices.
 Acknowledge the concerns respectfully, ask specific questions to understand the operational impacts, propose scheduling a dedicated working session to address implementation challenges, and commit to developing solutions collaboratively within a defined timeframe.
 Thank the commander for the feedback, explain the strategic rationale behind the new processes, offer to provide additional training and support resources, and suggest establishing a feedback mechanism for ongoing improvements.


4.
You are facilitating a strategic planning session for a major civil works program involving representatives from five districts, each with different regional priorities and approaches. Early in the meeting, it becomes apparent that two districts have very similar perspectives and are dominating the discussion, while representatives from the other districts seem reluctant to share their viewpoints. How do you encourage broader participation?
 Allow the two vocal districts to continue leading since they seem well-prepared and knowledgeable, focus on reaching consensus quickly among willing participants, and follow up individually with quiet districts after the meeting.
 Implement structured discussion rounds where each district presents their unique regional considerations, ask targeted questions to draw out different perspectives, and establish ground rules that ensure equal speaking time for all participants.
 Pause the discussion to emphasize the importance of hearing all perspectives, directly ask the less vocal districts for their input on specific topics, and encourage participants to build on each other's ideas rather than simply agreeing.
 Continue with the current discussion flow but occasionally ask if anyone has different opinions, take notes on all comments equally, and assume that silence indicates agreement with the dominant perspectives being shared.
 Acknowledge the valuable input received so far, then specifically invite the quieter districts to share their regional perspectives, and facilitate small group discussions before reconvening to share diverse viewpoints with the larger group.


5.
Two of your senior staff members have a fundamental disagreement about the approach for implementing a new quality compliance program. One advocates for a centralized model with standardized procedures, while the other strongly supports a decentralized approach allowing district flexibility. Their disagreement is affecting team morale and delaying program implementation. How do you resolve this conflict?

 Meet individually with each staff member to understand their perspectives and concerns, research best practices from other organizations, then bring both parties together to collaboratively develop a solution that addresses key requirements.
 Facilitate a structured discussion where both parties present their approaches with supporting data, identify common objectives and concerns, explore hybrid solutions that incorporate strengths of both approaches, and establish clear decision criteria for moving forward.
 Review both proposals independently, make a decision based on organizational priorities and resource constraints, then meet with both staff members to explain the rationale and expect their professional support of the chosen approach.
 Assign the decision to a neutral third party from another division, implement whichever approach is recommended without further discussion, and direct both staff members to focus on execution rather than continued debate.
 Organize a team meeting to discuss both approaches openly, encourage other staff members to provide input on the pros and cons of each option, and guide the group toward a consensus-based decision. ________________________________________


6.
You need to build a strong working relationship with a newly appointed district commander who has a reputation for being highly analytical and skeptical of division-level initiatives. Previous interactions between your division and this district have been strained due to disagreements over resource allocation and project priorities. How do you establish an effective working relationship?
 Invite the commander to visit division headquarters for a comprehensive briefing on current initiatives, introduce them to key staff members, and offer to provide additional analytical support for their district's priority projects.
 Continue with standard division procedures and communication protocols, assume that professional relationships will develop naturally over time, and address any issues only if they escalate to higher headquarters attention.
 Schedule an initial meeting to understand their priorities and concerns, prepare data-driven presentations for future interactions, establish regular communication channels, and identify opportunities for collaborative wins that benefit both division and district objectives.
 Send a welcoming email outlining division expectations and available resources, schedule quarterly check-in meetings, and wait for them to reach out when they need assistance with division-related matters.
 Arrange a face-to-face meeting to discuss mutual goals and expectations, share relevant background information about ongoing initiatives, and propose a trial period of enhanced coordination on a specific project to build trust.


7.
Your division is facing a persistent challenge with project delivery timelines that are consistently 15-20% longer than industry standards, despite following established USACE procedures. Traditional process improvements have yielded minimal results, and stakeholders are demanding innovative solutions. How do you approach developing breakthrough improvements?
 Research best practices from other USACE divisions and federal agencies, adapt successful approaches to your division's context, and gradually implement proven solutions while monitoring results carefully.
 Organize brainstorming sessions with staff from all organizational levels, benchmark against leading private sector practices, develop pilot programs to test promising concepts, and establish metrics to measure innovation effectiveness.
 Focus on better training staff in existing procedures, emphasize the importance of following established protocols more precisely, and request additional resources to support current processes rather than changing proven methods.
 Establish cross-functional innovation teams including external industry experts, conduct comprehensive process mapping to identify bottlenecks, pilot emerging technologies like AI-assisted project management, and create sandbox environments for testing radical process redesigns.
 Form a task force to analyze current processes and identify improvement opportunities, encourage staff to submit innovative ideas through a formal suggestion program, and implement the most feasible recommendations with appropriate risk management.


8.
During the planning phase of a major infrastructure modernization program, you notice several emerging risk indicators: new cybersecurity threats to control systems, potential supply chain disruptions for specialized equipment, and evolving environmental regulations that could affect project scope. How do you proactively address these interconnected risks?
 Document all identified risks in the project risk register, assign risk owners for monitoring and response, develop standard mitigation approaches for each category, and schedule quarterly risk reviews to assess status and needed adjustments.
 Develop a comprehensive risk assessment matrix mapping threat likelihood and impact, establish early warning systems with key indicators, create contingency plans for each risk scenario, and implement adaptive management strategies that can respond to evolving conditions.
 Continue with current planning processes while noting potential risks for future consideration, rely on existing organizational risk management procedures, and address specific risks only when they materialize into actual problems.
 Convene a risk assessment team with subject matter experts for each threat area, develop mitigation strategies with specific timelines and responsibilities, and establish regular monitoring protocols to track risk evolution and response effectiveness.
 Focus on the most immediate and likely risks first, develop basic contingency plans for high-probability scenarios, and plan to address other risks as they become more concrete or urgent.


9.
You must decide between two strategic approaches for a critical water resources project: a traditional approach with proven methods but higher long-term costs, or an innovative approach using new technology that offers significant cost savings but carries implementation uncertainties. The decision will impact the division's reputation and future funding. How do you make this risk-informed decision?
 Perform detailed cost-benefit analysis for both approaches including risk premiums, consult with technical experts and other organizations with similar experience, and develop a phased implementation plan that allows for course corrections.
 Choose the traditional approach to avoid potential criticism and ensure project success, document the innovative option as a future consideration, and prioritize maintaining the division's reputation for reliable project delivery.
 Focus primarily on the financial implications of each approach, consider the division's current capacity for managing implementation challenges, and select the option that offers the best return on investment within acceptable risk parameters.
 Conduct comprehensive risk-benefit analysis including probability assessments and sensitivity testing, develop hybrid approaches that incorporate innovative elements with proven fallback options, engage stakeholders in risk tolerance discussions, and establish decision gates with go/no-go criteria.
 Evaluate both options against organizational risk tolerance and strategic objectives, gather input from key stakeholders and technical advisors, and choose the approach that best balances innovation potential with acceptable risk levels.


10.
You have a high-potential GS-13 program analyst who consistently delivers quality work but lacks confidence in presenting to senior leadership and tends to avoid high-visibility assignments. They have expressed interest in advancing to a supervisory role within the next two years. How do you develop their leadership capabilities?
 Continue assigning them to technical work where they excel, wait for them to express readiness for more challenging assignments, and focus development efforts on staff members who already demonstrate leadership initiative.
 Include them in senior staff meetings as an observer, provide opportunities to present technical findings to smaller groups first, and recommend them for formal presentation skills training and leadership courses.
 Create a structured development plan with graduated presentation opportunities, assign them as deputy lead on a visible project, provide coaching before and feedback after each interaction, and connect them with senior mentors while offering formal leadership training.
 Encourage them to volunteer for more visible assignments, provide general feedback on their performance, and suggest they attend available training programs to build confidence and leadership skills.
 Gradually increase their exposure to senior leadership through briefing support roles, provide specific feedback on communication skills, encourage participation in leadership development programs, and assign stretch assignments with appropriate support.


11.
A talented GS-12 engineer in your division has expressed frustration about career progression and is considering leaving USACE for private sector opportunities. They feel uncertain about advancement paths within the federal system and believe their technical skills aren't being fully utilized. How do you mentor them through this career decision?
 Share information about different career paths available in USACE, discuss the benefits of federal service versus private sector opportunities, and encourage them to pursue additional training or certifications that would enhance their advancement potential.
 Conduct a comprehensive career planning session to explore their interests and goals, map potential advancement paths within USACE including lateral opportunities, identify skill gaps and development needs, and create a personalized development plan with specific milestones and timelines.
 Focus on the benefits of federal employment such as job security and retirement benefits, discourage them from considering private sector options, and emphasize that loyalty to the organization will eventually be rewarded with advancement.
 Schedule regular one-on-one meetings to discuss their career aspirations, provide information about various advancement opportunities within the organization, and help them identify specific actions and experiences needed to achieve their goals.
 Listen to their concerns and provide general advice about career development, suggest they speak with HR about advancement opportunities, and encourage them to be patient as good opportunities will eventually arise.


12.
Your division recently completed a complex multi-year program that encountered significant challenges including stakeholder resistance, budget constraints, and technical complications. A new program manager is about to begin leading a similar initiative. How do you share lessons learned to help them avoid the pitfalls you experienced?
 Share general observations about program management challenges, provide copies of relevant reports and documentation, and suggest they reach out if they encounter similar problems during implementation.
 Schedule a detailed briefing to discuss major challenges encountered and successful mitigation strategies, share relevant documentation and correspondence from critical decision points, and offer to serve as an advisor during their program's initial phases.
 Assume they will learn from their own experience as you did, provide standard program management resources and procedures, and focus on your current responsibilities rather than spending time on retrospective analysis.
 Conduct a comprehensive after-action review session covering key decision points and outcomes, provide written documentation of critical lessons learned with specific recommendations, arrange meetings with key stakeholders who were involved, and establish a mentoring relationship for ongoing guidance.
 Provide a written summary of lessons learned including both successes and failures, meet with the new program manager to discuss key insights, and make yourself available for consultation as issues arise.


13.
Midway through implementing a major organizational restructuring that you championed, new data emerges showing that a key assumption about operational efficiency gains was incorrect. Additionally, HQUSACE has issued new guidance that conflicts with some aspects of your restructuring plan. How do you respond to this new information?
 Conduct a thorough review of the new information with your planning team, identify which aspects of the restructuring need modification, and develop revised implementation plans that incorporate the new guidance and data insights.
 Continue with the current restructuring plan while noting the new information for future consideration, make minimal adjustments to comply with HQUSACE guidance, and emphasize the long-term benefits of the original plan.
 Immediately analyze the new data and guidance to understand implications, convene stakeholders to reassess the restructuring plan, modify the approach based on current information while preserving beneficial elements, and communicate changes transparently with clear rationale.
 Maintain the current course since significant resources have already been invested, argue that the new data may be flawed or incomplete, and seek exceptions to the new HQUSACE guidance based on your division's unique circumstances.
 Acknowledge the new information and its implications, pause implementation to reassess the current approach, and work with stakeholders to determine necessary adjustments while maintaining momentum on beneficial changes.


14.
During a critical project review meeting, you learn that a major contractor has filed for bankruptcy, a key environmental permit has been challenged in court, and Congress is considering budget cuts that could affect your program funding. These developments require immediate attention and could significantly impact your division's strategic plan. How do you adapt to these simultaneous challenges?
 Immediately activate contingency planning protocols, establish a crisis management team to address each issue simultaneously, develop multiple scenario plans with different resource and timeline assumptions, and communicate proactively with all stakeholders about adaptive strategies.
 Assess the potential impact of each issue on current operations, reallocate resources to address the most critical challenges first, and develop backup plans while keeping stakeholders informed of potential changes.
 Continue with existing plans while gathering more information about each issue, avoid making hasty decisions that could create additional problems, and wait for clearer direction from higher headquarters before implementing major changes.
 Prioritize the issues by immediate impact and urgency, assign dedicated teams to address each challenge, develop alternative approaches for each scenario, and establish accelerated decision-making processes to respond quickly to developments.
 Focus on the most controllable issue first while monitoring developments on the others, maintain current operations where possible, and adjust plans incrementally as more information becomes available.


15.
You have implemented a new performance management system for your division that standardizes evaluation processes across all districts. After six months, you want to assess its effectiveness and identify needed improvements. How do you actively solicit comprehensive feedback about the system's performance?
 Send feedback surveys to all users of the system, schedule meetings with district commanders and senior staff, review performance metrics and system data, and create opportunities for informal feedback through regular interactions.
 Ask for feedback during regular staff meetings, review system reports and metrics, and encourage people to share their experiences with the new system through normal communication channels.
 Conduct structured interviews with supervisors and employees at various levels, distribute anonymous feedback surveys, analyze system usage data and outcomes, and hold town hall meetings to gather broader organizational input.
 Monitor system performance through available data and reports, assume that lack of complaints indicates satisfaction, and focus on addressing only specific issues that are brought to your attention.
 Design a multi-method feedback approach including anonymous surveys, focus groups with different organizational levels, one-on-one interviews with key stakeholders, data analysis of system metrics, and comparison with baseline performance indicators.


16.
Your division is facing significant budget reductions that will require eliminating some programs and reducing staff in others. Morale is low, and many employees are concerned about job security and the organization's future direction. You need to maintain productivity and engagement during this challenging transition. How do you engage and inspire your team?
 Provide regular updates about budget decisions as they are made, encourage employees to focus on their current responsibilities, and emphasize that those who perform well will have the best opportunities for retention.
 Hold regular all-hands meetings to provide updates and address concerns, emphasize the important mission work that will continue, involve employees in identifying cost-saving measures, and highlight individual and team contributions to organizational success.
 Communicate transparently about challenges and opportunities, involve staff in developing creative solutions and efficiency improvements, recognize and celebrate achievements during the transition, and articulate a compelling vision for the division's future role and mission.
 Minimize discussion of budget issues to avoid further anxiety, focus on maintaining normal operations, and assume that dedicated employees will remain motivated by their commitment to the mission regardless of organizational changes.
 Maintain open communication about the situation and decision-making process, focus on the essential work that must continue, provide support for affected employees, and emphasize the organization's long-term stability and mission importance.


17.
During a high-pressure project meeting with external stakeholders, one of your district commanders makes a comment that could be perceived as culturally insensitive toward a tribal representative who is a key project partner. The comment creates visible tension in the room, and you notice the tribal representative's discomfort. How do you address this situation?
 Assume the comment was unintentional and focus on completing the meeting objectives, address any communication issues only if the tribal representative raises specific concerns about the interaction.
 Immediately acknowledge the concern, redirect the conversation to focus on collaborative solutions, speak privately with both parties during a break to address the issue, and follow up afterward to ensure the working relationship remains strong and respectful.
 Acknowledge all perspectives in the room, emphasize the importance of the partnership, and guide the conversation toward productive collaboration while making note to discuss communication expectations with your staff later.
 Continue with the meeting agenda while being more attentive to the tribal representative's input, and plan to speak with the district commander privately about appropriate communication in stakeholder meetings.
 Politely interrupt to refocus the discussion on project objectives, ensure the tribal representative has opportunities to share their perspectives, and address the inappropriate comment privately with the district commander after the meeting.


18.
You are presenting a major infrastructure project proposal to a diverse group including local community leaders, environmental advocates, business representatives, and tribal officials. Each group has different priorities, concerns, and communication preferences. How do you tailor your presentation to address the varied needs of your audience?
 Prepare presentation materials that highlight different aspects of the project relevant to each stakeholder group, acknowledge the diverse perspectives in the room, and facilitate discussion that allows each group to express their priorities and concerns.
 Present the technical and economic aspects of the project comprehensively, provide opportunities for questions, and address specific concerns as they are raised by different stakeholder groups.
 Research each stakeholder group's priorities and concerns in advance, structure the presentation to address specific interests of each audience, use varied communication approaches and examples that resonate with different groups, and provide multiple opportunities for questions and dialogue.
 Focus on the overall project benefits and technical requirements, provide a standard presentation format, and assume that stakeholders will ask questions about their specific areas of interest.
 Include information relevant to all stakeholder groups in the presentation, acknowledge the different interests represented, and ensure adequate time for questions and discussion from all participants.


19.
USACE is shifting toward greater emphasis on climate resilience and sustainable infrastructure, while also facing pressure to reduce costs and accelerate project delivery. You must develop a five-year strategic plan for your division that balances these competing demands while positioning the organization for future success. How do you approach this strategic planning challenge?
 Review organizational mission and mandates, assess current performance and future challenges, develop strategic objectives that balance competing priorities, and create implementation plans with clear timelines and resource requirements.
 Maintain current strategic direction while incorporating new requirements as additional objectives, focus on meeting immediate performance targets, and assume that long-term success will result from consistent execution of current practices.
 Focus on core organizational strengths and proven capabilities, identify areas where efficiency improvements can support sustainability goals, and develop incremental plans that build on current successful practices.
 Analyze current organizational capabilities and future requirements, engage stakeholders to understand priorities and constraints, develop integrated strategies that address multiple objectives simultaneously, and establish metrics to track progress toward long-term goals.
 Conduct comprehensive stakeholder analysis and environmental scanning, develop multiple strategic scenarios with different resource assumptions, identify synergies between sustainability and efficiency goals, and create adaptive implementation plans with decision points for course corrections.


20.
Your division is considering a partnership with a private technology company to implement an innovative project management system that could significantly improve efficiency. However, the technology is relatively new, the company has limited government experience, and there are concerns about data security and vendor dependence. How do you apply critical thinking to evaluate this opportunity?
 Conduct systematic risk-benefit analysis including technical, financial, and operational factors, evaluate alternative solutions and implementation approaches, assess vendor capabilities and track record thoroughly, and develop risk mitigation strategies with contingency plans for various scenarios.
 Evaluate the technology's fit with organizational needs and capabilities, assess vendor qualifications and references, identify potential risks and mitigation measures, and develop implementation plans that include appropriate safeguards.
 Emphasize the innovation potential and competitive advantages, assume that vendor claims about capabilities are accurate, and focus on moving quickly to capture first-mover advantages in technology adoption.
 Analyze the technology's potential benefits and limitations, thoroughly vet the vendor's capabilities and security protocols, compare with alternative solutions, and develop a phased implementation approach that allows for evaluation and adjustment.
 Focus on the potential efficiency benefits and cost savings, review vendor proposals and capabilities, identify major risk factors, and develop basic contingency plans for implementation challenges.


21.
You are tasked with developing a comprehensive strategic plan for integrating artificial intelligence and automation technologies across your division's project management processes. This initiative must align with USACE enterprise systems, support multiple mission areas, and demonstrate measurable improvements in efficiency and effectiveness. How do you develop this strategic integration plan?

 Analyze existing project management processes and technology needs, develop strategic objectives for AI integration, create implementation timeline with resource requirements, and establish coordination mechanisms with enterprise systems.
 Assess current technology capabilities and gaps, develop integration strategy that supports all mission areas, establish pilot programs to test approaches, and create implementation plans with clear milestones and success metrics.
 Focus on areas with highest potential for efficiency gains, develop basic implementation plans for proven technologies, and coordinate with IT departments to ensure compatibility with existing systems.
 Conduct enterprise architecture analysis to ensure system interoperability, develop phased implementation roadmap with pilot programs, establish governance structure for technology integration, create performance metrics and evaluation frameworks, and align with USACE-wide digital transformation initiatives.
 Identify available AI technologies and vendors, develop procurement strategies for new systems, and focus on implementing solutions that can demonstrate quick wins and cost savings.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙