Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (APPSW/INET) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TN-13066568-AR-26-235 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 23, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current on-board permanent or term employee (T32 military technicians/ T5 National Guard employees) with membership in the Tennessee Army National Guard?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure status in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3). For Lateral requests blocks 16-18 will reflect Occupational Series Code and grade level.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have 36 months specialized experience that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies which demonstrate the likelihood to perform successfully the duties of the position and is related to the work of the position to be filled; these knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies are normally attained through the equivalent of one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of GS-11; or experience obtained through other means; demonstratable knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies may be typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT or other means?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience planning, coordinating and accomplishing studies to identify the need for new stand-alone and web-based application requirements?


2a.
Please explain your experiences as it relates to the question above.


3.
Do you possess previous work experience that required you to develop new applications using software-engineering techniques that enhance existing stovepipe systems?


3a.
If applicable, please explain your experience as it relates to the question above.


4.
Have you ever been tasked with drafting project plans, assigning tasks, monitoring progress, and resolving critical issues involving IT specific platforms?


4a.
Please explain your experiences as it relates to the question above.


5.
Do you have experience providing training on application implementation, including classroom instruction and Computer Based Training (CBT) development?


5a.
Please describe any experience(s) that you may have as it pertains to the question above.


6.
Do you have the ability to anticipate problems, research trends in system needs, and determine when new or additional hardware/software is required?


6a.
Please explain your experiences as it relates to the question above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words, provided in good faith and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)). I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙