Position Title
Contract Specialist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-RG-26-13016026 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Montgomery County, MD
 B. Hamilton, MT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Short Essay Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Institutes of Health. Carefully read each question and all response options before selecting your answer. Some questions may be used to determine basic eligibility; responses may result in disqualification.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the degree completion eligibility requirements for this program. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
 I am a recent graduate who has completed all the requirements for an associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution, within the past two (2) years.
 I am a preference eligible veteran who was precluded from applying two years after completing my degree because of my military service obligation. NOTE: Preference eligible veterans begin their two-year eligibility period upon release or discharge from active duty. Eligibility for these veterans cannot exceed six years from the date they completed their degree (or certificate).
 None of the above responses apply to me.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the grade point average eligibility requirement for this program. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
 I completed all the requirements for my degree or certificate with a cumulative grade point average at or above 3.0 overall (out of a 4.0 scale) (Note: We DO NOT round up).
 I did NOT complete all the requirements for my degree or certificate with a cumulative grade point average at or above 3.00 overall (out of a 4.0 scale).


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes your education or experience as related to the occupational requirements for this position.
 I qualify for this position because I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
 I qualify for this position because I have at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I occupied a GS-1102 position on January 1, 2000. Employees who occupy GS-1102 positions at grades 5 through 12 will be considered to meet the basic requirements for other GS-1102 positions up to and including those classified at GS-12. This includes positions at other agencies and promotions up through grade 12.
 My education or experience does not match the choices above.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements of a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-07, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-07 level because I have completed one (1) year of graduate-level education that is directly related to the duties of this position.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-07 level because I meet one of the requirements for Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) based on a) graduating within the upper third of the graduating class in a college, university, or major subdivision such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; b) having a grade point average of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; c) being elected for membership in a national scholastic honor society. Note: SAA must be based on a related curriculum that is qualifying for the position being filled.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-07 level because I have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: performing administrative duties and assisting program staff to provide acquisition support associated with the procurement of supplies and services, assisting with preparing acquisition documents, analyzing bids/proposals/quotes, and recommend revisions to the statement of work.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-07 level because I have a combination of post-baccalaureate education that is related to this position and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My experience or education does not match the choices above.


5.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements of a Contract Specialist, GS-1102-09, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or an LL.B. or J.D. To qualify based on graduate education, graduate education in one or a combination of the following fields is required: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: reviewing requisitions for supplies or services to determine that proper specifications or purchase descriptions are included in solicitation documents; evaluating bids or proposals for supplies or services to ensure compliance with specifications or purchase descriptions; and/or evaluating the prior contract performance of potential suppliers to determine their financial responsibility.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have a combination of post-baccalaureate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 My experience or education does not match the choices above.


6.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will remove you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, I may be removed from further consideration or future employment.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙