Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12879548-26-HYC Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 05, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


1.
Basic Requirement - Registration.

All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.

Exceptions: Non-credentialed Dietitians who meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a temporary full-time appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C.§ 7405(c)(2) and must have fulfilled each of the following:
Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent.
Completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND accredited programs is located on the ACEND® website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory
Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND® and meet ACEND®'s International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam.

Grandfathering Provision. Employees in VHA in this occupation, under a permanent, appropriate and legal placement effective October 14, 2022, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and registration/certification, where applicable

Do you meet one of the above registration requirements?
 I possess the Registered Dietitian Nutritionists (RDN) credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR). (NOTE: Must attach a copy of your RDN registration)
 I possess a bachelor’s or higher degree AND have completed an ACEND® accredited experiential or supervised practice program. (NOTE: Must provide copy of transcript and verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN)
 Under the Grandfathering Provision, I have been continuously employed in the Veterans Health Administration as a Dietician. (Note: You must submit copies of your SF-50 dated prior to October 14, 2022 as evidence of continued employment as a Dietician GS-0630 position. Additional requirements may apply.)
 I do not possess the required registration, education and experience to qualify for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirement - English Language Proficiency.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Grade determination GS-09
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, the applicant must also meet the below criteria:

(a) Experience or Education.
At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level
OR
Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college that is related to nutrition.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.
 Yes, I possess both the above grade determining requirements, and can demonstrate the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. (NOTE: Must demonstrate experience on resume with hours worked per week and submit transcript).
 Under the Grandfathering Provision, I have been continuously employed in the Veterans Health Administration as a Dietician. (Note: You must submit copies of your SF-50 dated prior to October 14, 2022 as evidence of continued employment as a Dietician GS-0630 position. Additional requirements may apply.)
 No, I do not meet the grade determining requirements and KSA to qualify for this position.


4.
Grade determination GS-11
In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, the applicant must also meet the below criteria:

(a) Experience.
At least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade.

(b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.
 Yes, I possess both the above grade determining requirements, and can demonstrate the above Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. (NOTE: Must demonstrate experience on resume with hours worked per week and submit transcript).
 Under the Grandfathering Provision, I have been continuously employed in the Veterans Health Administration as a Dietician. (Note: You must submit copies of your SF-50 dated prior to October 14, 2022 as evidence of continued employment as a Dietician GS-0630 position. Additional requirements may apply.)
 No, I do not meet the grade determining requirements and KSA to qualify for this position.


Part-time experience is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time work week. For example, one week of full-time credit is equivalent to two weeks of part-time work. Resume Requirement. Your resume must include the following information: Job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date (month/year) of employment, and average hours worked per week.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙