Position Title
PROJECT COORDINATION SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13052661-AF-26-593 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air/Army National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air or Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air or Army National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air or Army National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air or Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air or Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration. Compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information. Progressively responsible experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements as indicated above?

(MUST address these general experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations. (MUST address these experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position.)

OR

B) A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
(MUST provide copies of all relevant transcripts to be considered for this position, if using this option to qualify. Official transcripts may be required at a later date.)

OR

C) A combination of Specialized experience and Education equal to 100% of the requirements. (MUST address the specialized experiences in detail on resume AND provide copies of all relevant transcripts to be considered for this position, if using this option to qualify)

Do you meet one of the above requirements for specialized experience and/or education?
 Yes, I meet option A.
 Yes, I meet option B.
 Yes, I meet option C.
 No, I do not meet any of the above requirements.


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE AND/OR EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training in program or managerial experience in a type of work or a combination of functions directly related to the position to be filled or in comparable work or functions. Experience developing and recommending policy; organizing and carrying out specific programs, evaluating and recommending changes in methods of operations. Experience in supervisory, staff or technical work which included study, analysis or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices and procedures. Experience preparing written communications and oral presentations. (MUST address these experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position.)

OR

B) A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
(MUST provide copies of all relevant transcripts to be considered for this position, if using this option to qualify. Official transcripts may be required at a later date.)

OR

C) A combination of Specialized experience and Education equal to 100% of the requirements. (MUST address the specialized experiences in detail on resume AND provide copies of all relevant transcripts to be considered for this position, if using this option to qualify)


4a.
This is a required field. If using experience and/or education (option A or C) to qualify, please explain your experiences here. You will still be required to list any qualifying experiences on your resume. If using education only (option B) to qualify, please note your degree here and submit transcripts with your application. *If this field is blank or missing qualifying information, you may not be considered for interview.


5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
Air & Army; Enlisted E5 - E9
Army; Warrant WO1 - CW5
Air & Army; Officer O1 - O4
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air or Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air or Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air or Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air or Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air or Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


6.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/transfer/reinstatement?


7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙