Position Title
Executive Correspondence Officer
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
OLA-26-12987834-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you applying for eligibility based on the Schedule A hiring authority for the employment of persons with severe physical, intellectual, or psychiatric disabilities?
Schedule A refers to a special hiring authority that gives Federal agencies an optional, and potentially quicker, way to hire individuals with disabilities. Applying under Schedule A offers an exception to the traditional competitive hiring process. You can apply for jobs using Schedule A, if you are a person with an intellectual disability, a severe physical disability, or a psychiatric disability. Learn more about Schedule A...

Notes about Schedule A eligibility: 
You must provide "proof of a disability" documentation with your application, stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits.
Veterans with a 30% (or greater) disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) can qualify for Schedule A by submitting your VA Letter as part of your application and by claiming this eligibility option.
Appointments under Schedule A are in the Excepted Service, but are eligible for conversion to the Competitive Service after 2 years with a successful performance rating and at the recommendation of management. (If you are already in a competitive service appointment, you would be converted back to the excepted service if you take an appointment under Schedule A.)
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service.  For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, please submit the Member #4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter with the disability rating. 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Executive Correspondence Officer, GS-0301-13, position with Department of Justice. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience demonstrating your ability to perform Executive Correspondence Officer work at the GS-2210-13 grade level in the Federal service, or comparable non-Federal experience.
 My resume demonstrates one (1) year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service that includes Managing an automated tracking system, such as the electronic Consolidated Asset Tracking System (eCATS), for all incoming correspondence to determine the issues raised; Ensuring background and support information is provided in Congressional correspondence packages; and Analyzing issues concerning the efficiency or effectiveness of program operations.
 My resume does not demonstrate the specialized experience described above in statement A.


2.
Your responses to the announcement and questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙