Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Office of Personnel Management
Announcement Number
26-RGJ-12855935-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Jan 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
For the GS-12 level:

Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level (or equivalent) performing all of the following:
Using qualitative or quantitative methods to evaluate programs or administrative operations.
Assisting with budget formulation and execution; analyzing budget information to support financial planning or tracking.
Assisting with procurement actions by preparing supporting documents or monitoring contract status.
Initiating personnel actions or maintaining workforce or staffing data.
Preparing reports, summaries, or materials that communicate analytical findings to management.
 Yes
 No


2.
For the GS-13 Level:

Do you have one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level (or equivalent) performing all of the following:
Using qualitative and quantitative methods to assess programs or operations and develop recommendations.
Formulating budgets, analyzing budget data, monitoring obligations, or preparing cost information to support financial decision making.
Preparing procurement documentation or tracking contract actions, including work statements, cost estimates, or requisitions.
Initiating or tracking personnel actions or supporting workforce planning activities.
Developing reports, process documentation, or briefing materials for leadership.
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you received awards or been recognized as part of your annual performance appraisal for work that was based on performance of one or more of the competencies described for this position? Due weight of this recognition will be given in the evaluation process. You may submit documentation of this recognition.

 Yes
 No


Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


4.
Failure to agree to respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙