Position Title
ELECTRONIC INTEGRATED SYSTEMS MECHANIC (T32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13048747-AF-26-232 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 02, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Army M-Day and current Air DSG members within the state for which you are applying.  Are you a current Army M-Day or current Air DSG member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current nationwide military/prior members willing and eligible to become National Guard members.  Are you a current military or prior member willing and eligible to become a National Guard member?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/MOS to include skill level.


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
- Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
- Drill status and Full-time positions listed separately
- Duties listed under each position held (be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
- Employer's name and address
- Supervisor's name and contact information
- Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
- Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
- Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
- Tech school start and end dates required
- High school graduation date, if applicable
- AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?

Experiences involved installing, modifying, overhauling, maintaining, troubleshooting, repairing, aligning, calibrating, and rebuilding multi-system avionics complexes consisting of multiple completely integrated electronic avionics systems where the complex accomplishes a number of major functions. Skilled in performing on-or-off equipment maintenance on one or more complete electronic integrated systems associated with the assigned aircraft and/or maintenance on automatic flight control systems, instrument systems, inertial or radar navigation systems. Experiences included performing scheduled and unscheduled maintenance on one or more multi-complex electronic integrated systems. Skilled in conducting operational checks, inspections, tests, trouble shooting, removal and replacement of line replaceable units. Capable of isolating unusual malfunctions by using technical orders, schematics, wiring diagrams, tools, and test equipment to include automatic test equipment and flight line test systems. Experiences involved solving complex problems by analyzing installation, circuitry, and operating characteristics of the systems. Skilled in adjusting and aligning system sensors, transmitters, amplifiers, power supplies, display devices, controls, transponders, actuators, servos, computers and other related components.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess at least a three-skill level in one of the compatible AFSCs, with 12 months of work experiences? Documentation of AFSC and skill level must be uploaded.

Compatible AFSCs:
2A051 and 2A031
2A251 and 2A231
2A252 and 2A232
2A253 and 2A233
2A354 and 2A334
2A355 and 2A335
2A851 and 2A831
2A852 and 2A832
2A951 and 2A931
2A952 and 2A932
2A953 and 2A933
 Yes
 No


6.
Does your experience, training and resume support the General Experience criteria below?
Skilled in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately
Ability to communicate clearly and effectively
Skilled in duties such as, install, modify, overhaul, maintain, troubleshoot, repair, align, calibrate, and rebuild multi-system avionics complexes
Ability to format and write English in reports and presentation formats
Skilled in presenting formal training presentations and briefings
Skilled in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting material
Skilled in training, mentoring, leading, and problem-solving
 Yes
 No


7.
To credit work experiences gained from completing the compatible AFSC technical training school program, you must submit technical school certificate(s) and student evaluation(s) to support/verify AFSC work experiences and skills performed while attending the applicable Air Force technical school(s).

Do you acknowledge that you have uploaded the certificates and student evaluations as required?
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Please read and respond to all the questions below. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


8.
In detail, explain your experience inspecting, testing, troubleshooting, repairing and modifying software controlled automated and manually controlled test stations, electronic circuit maintenance pods, peripherals, support equipment and associated subsystems.


9.
In detail, explain your knowledge of stations that are used to repair and maintain all avionics line-replaceable units and pods.


10.
In detail, explain your skill in analyzing performance, running tests, conducting inspections, troubleshooting, identifying and isolating malfunctions, disassembling, modifying or repairing and reassembling the test stations or electronic circuit maintenance pods and their associated peripherals.


11.
In detail, explain your experience involved analyzing malfunctions using schematics, logic and wiring diagrams, programming tables, computer program flow charts, software user guides, computer program listings and factory drawings.


12.
In detail, explain your experience in removing and replacing components, assemblies, sub-assemblies, or parts using special and common hand tools, soldering devices and special electronic instruments.


13.
In detail, please explain your ability to perform on-or-off equipment maintenance on one or more complete electronic integrated systems associated with the assigned aircraft and/or maintenance on automatic flight control systems, instrument systems, inertial or radar navigation systems.


14.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙