Position Title
Work and Family Life Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12963857 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Work and Family Life Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All education and experience stated in answers must be reflected in resume and/or transcripts.


1.
Which of the following education and/or progressively responsible specialized experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position?
 I have a master’s or equivalent graduate degree; or two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a degree appropriate to the position; or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have two (2) years of progressively responsible specialized experience in planning, managing, coordinating and/or implementing outreach for Personal and Family Life Readiness (Mind-Body Mental Fitness) or Quality of Life Programs, such as Life Skills Education, Personal Financial Management, Relocation Assistance, Transition Assistance, Employment Assistance, Ombudsman Program, and Exceptional Family Member Program.
 I have a combination of education and progressively responsible specialized experience that provided knowledge equivalent to a subject-matter field appropriate to the position.
 I do not possess any of the above.


2.
Do you have experience conducting trainings on Personal and Family Life Readiness or Quality of Life Programs?

 Yes.
 No.


3.
Do you have experience interviewing clients to assess issues or concerns and determine the appropriate referral services and/or options?

 Yes.
 No.


4.
Select the software databases that represent your experience (select all that apply):
 A. Word
 B. Excel
 C. PowerPoint
 D. I do not have experience with any of the above.


5.
Do you have experience writing articles or preparing and delivering briefs on Quality of Life Programs or services?
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙