Position Title
Visual Information Specialist (Training Design)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLADHRS-26-12848922-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 11, 2025 to Dec 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience
that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making
your selection.
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Developing and delivering accessible digital training solutions for diverse audiences, ensuring effective knowledge transfer through engaging course materials designed for virtual platforms, instructor-led sessions, and computer-based training (CBT). Utilizing course authoring and video production software to create compelling learning experiences, grounded in instructional design principles and adult learning theory. Evaluating training program outcomes to optimize future development and maximize learning effectiveness.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this position.


The following questions assess your experience and training as they relate to the requirements of this position. Please select the answer that best describes your experience. Crucially, each answer you choose must be explicitly supported by the information you've provided in your resume. Lack of clear resume support for your answers may negatively affect your scoring and potentially lead to disqualification.


2.
Which of the following best demonstrates the effective use of visual hierarchy in training infographics?

 Using the same font size and color for all text elements
 Placing the most important information at the bottom of the page
 Using larger, bold headings and contrasting colors to guide the viewer’s attention
 Center-aligning all text and images for visual balance


3.
You are designing a training module that explains a complex multi-step process. Which visual format would most
effectively support learner comprehension?

 Static image with text overlay
 Interactive flowchart with clickable steps
 Bulleted list in a slide deck
 Animated video walkthrough


4.
When developing visual training materials, which practice best supports accessibility for users with color vision
deficiency?

 Using red and green to differentiate key elements
 Relying solely on color to convey meaning
 Using low-contrast color combinations for aesthetic appeal
 Including patterns, labels, or icons in addition to color coding 4


5.
Which of the following best measures the effectiveness of a training program?

 Number of slides in the presentation
 Participant satisfaction survey results
 Pre- and post-training performance assessments
 Attendance rate during the training


6.
Which technique is most effective for maintaining audience engagement during a training presentation?

 Incorporating interactive elements like polls or Q&A
 Using monotone voice for consistency
 Reading directly from slides
 Presenting all content without breaks


7.
Which instructional method is most effective for teaching a hands-on technical skill to adult learners?

 Lecture-based presentation
 Demonstration followed by guided practice
 Reading assignment with follow-up quiz
 Group discussion on theoretical concepts


8.
You are tasked with communicating a new company policy to a diverse workforce. Which medium would be most
effective for ensuring clarity and broad understanding?

 A short, animated explainer video with voiceover
 A lengthy email with legal terminology
 A live announcement during a team meeting
 A printed memo posted in break rooms


9.
Which technique is most effective when using visual media to entertain and inform simultaneously?

 Presenting raw data in tables
 Combining narrative structure with dynamic visuals and sound
 Using static text slides with bullet points
 Displaying a list of facts without context


10.
You've created a new training video. Which dissemination strategy would maximize reach and accessibility across a
large organization?

 Uploading the video to a shared drive without notification
 Sending the video link via email with a brief summary and captioned transcript
 Presenting the video only during in-person meetings
 Posting the video on a bulletin board as a QR code


11.
When incorporating voiceover into a training video, which practice best supports learner comprehension?

 Using robotic text-to-speech for efficiency
 Speaking quickly to reduce video length
 Using a clear, conversational tone with appropriate pacing
 Recording in a noisy environment to simulate realism


12.
Which of the following best enhances learner engagement in a digital training module?

 A static PDF with text-only content
 A narrated video with synchronized visuals and captions
 A slide deck with bullet points and no audio
 A downloadable transcript with hyperlinks


13.
Which approach best improves readability in instructional content delivered via mobile devices, considering the
principles of responsive design to ensure optimal text scaling and layout adjustments across different screen sizes?

 Dense paragraphs with technical jargon
 Left-aligned text with short sentences and bullet points
 Justified text blocks with minimal spacing
 Using all caps for emphasis throughout


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙