Position Title
PIPEFITTER
Agency
United States Army Installation Management Command
Announcement Number
IPA1-26-12901929 - DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 50 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires the incumbent to be able to obtain and maintain a respirator fitness card, asbestos certifications and backflow certification card. I will obtain and maintain these requirements for the duration of my employment in this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Pipefitter position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Pipefitter duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Pipefitter tasks by independently planning, setting up, and performing complex modifications to low and high-pressure piping systems and installation of equipment such as oil fired heating equipment, steam heating, steam and hot water boilers, steam generators, radiators, heat exchangers, condensate tanks, traps, pumps, coils, steam filters, and regulators. I have experience troubleshooting and analyzing defects or malfunctions and completing unusual repairs involving all parts of a piping system. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Pipefitter tasks and am skilled in installing, modifying, and repairing steam and hot/cold water piping systems and equipment; completing the routing and placement of piping systems leading to the equipment; determining and placing the equipment to include radiators at the proper levels and points in the system; and joining, sealing, utilizing welding and testing the systems and equipment for proper pressure, leak-free joints, and operation. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Pipefitter tasks. I am skilled in cutting, bending, assembling, and installing water pipe, fittings, and fixtures such as reducers and valves in constructing and repairing piping systems; aligning piping sections and making proper connections; and installing utility fixtures such as toilets, sinks, wash stands; and repair leaks. I am able to interpret drawings and understand blueprints. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Pipefitter tasks that are easily learned such as assisting a journeyman worker in preparing work area by getting tools and supplies, carrying materials, and lifting and holding material in place during installation. I have experience performing simpler tasks such as cutting pipe, installing hangers and brackets, and replacing valve washers, worn nuts and bolts.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙