Position Title
SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION RESPONSE VICTIM ADVOCATE (SAPR VA)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
ID-12828788-AR-T5-4379 Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, November 14, 2025 to Sunday, December 14, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
PLEASE ANSWER THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Your resume must include start and end dates (MONTH AND YEAR) for each position listed to receive credit for specialized experience.

Examples:

From 2002 to 2004 I was a crew chief. (NO)

From Mar 2002 to Oct 2004 I served as the crew chief on a C-130 where I used testing equipment to troubleshoot malfunctions with systems. I repaired, maintained, serviced, inspected, and modified systems on the aircraft daily in the performance of my job. I use tech orders and manufacturers drawings and diagrams to determine proper maintenance procedures on assigned aircraft. (YES)

Does your resume reflect both month and year?

 Yes
 No


2.
EDUCATION/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.

OR

Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.

OR

Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources. Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures. Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.

To ensure full credit is given for the qualification requirements you will need to be specific with your experience and write it in terms that the Human Resource Specialist can easily understand (please refrain from using acronyms).  Include both military and civilian experience (credit is applied for both your military and civilian jobs, except for overlapping periods).  Please include any MOS/AFSC that you hold/held and the dates they were obtained.

Do you meet these requirements and does your resume reflect the specialized experience listed above?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙