Position Title
Creative Arts Therapist (Art)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12878106-26-LF Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 04, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Creative Arts Therapist (Art) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The assessment part of the questionnaire includes questions about your eligibility, minimum qualifications, and KSAs (knowledge, skills and abilities) related to this position. This section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) in response to the following questions.


1.
VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a, requires that applicants must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am not proficient in spoken and written English


2.
A requirement for appointment as a Creative Arts Therapist (Art) VHA includes education: To be eligible for appointment in VHA, an applicant must have the below:

(a) A master's degree or higher, from an accredited college or university, with a major in art therapy approved by the American Art Therapy Association on or before June 30, 2016. If the degree is received after June 30, 2016, a master's degree or higher from an accredited college or university, with a major in art therapy, must be accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Art Therapy Education: a committee of the Commission on Accreditation on Allied Health Education Program.
OR,
(b) A master's degree in a related field, plus graduate coursework and supervised field experience in art therapy. Acceptable related fields include Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Social Work, Psychology, Addictions Counseling, Psychiatric Nursing, and Psychiatry, AND must possess a full, current, and unrestricted registration as a Registered Art Therapist (ATR) approved by the Art Therapy Credentials Board. If hired under this education, the registration cannot be waived.

Do you meet the education requirement listed above? (Please include a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application)
 A. Yes, I meet the required education note above. (Reminder, must provide transcripts with application)
 B. No, I do not meet the education requirement.


3.
Required Certification: Must possess a full, current, and unrestricted registration with the ATR. If hired under paragraph 3b(2)(b), registration cannot be waived.(Please include a copy of your certification with your application)
Exception: Non-registered and/or non-certified applicants at the GS-9 level who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for registration and/or certification, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Creative Arts Therapist, under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2)(B), the appointment cannot exceed two years if the non-registered applicant's registration is pending ATR .Do you meet this requirement? In all cases Creative Arts Therapist must actively pursue meeting registration starting from the date of appointment.

Select the response that best describes you.
 Yes, I have this certification.
 No, I do not have this certification
 No, I am covered by the Grandfathering provision as I have been in this Occupation since June 7, 2019.
 No, however, I meet the eligibility requirements or registration and certification, and I understand I may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Creative Art Therapist appointment as stated above.


The following questions relate to grade determination of a Creative Arts Therapist.


4.
Creative Arts Therapist GS-9.
No experience or education beyond the basic requirements as listed above.
 Employees at this level serve in an entry level position as creative arts therapist (art). Employees have knowledge of their respective discipline and work with direct supervision and guidance from higher-level or supervisory staff. Established treatment procedures are substantially adapted and applied for patients who are acutely ill. Therapists at this level may be given general assignments in a program area. Select the answer that best describes you.
 Yes, I meet the basic requirements of a Creative Arts Therapist.
 No, I do not meet the requirements as listed above.


5.
Experience, GS-11 Creative Arts Therapist Level-
The following statement regarding your qualifications will be used in determining if you meet the GS-11 grade assignment. Do you have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled? In addition to the experience the candidate must demonstrate (ALL) of the following KSAs:
(a). Ability to identify current art resources in the community at the time of assessment, for discharge planning purposes.
(b). Ability to develop and implement quality improvement systems as related to internal and external regulatory requirements, including patient safety.
(c) Knowledge of diagnostic coding and symptoms of diagnoses in the provision of art therapy.
(d) Knowledge of the creative process and art media and their effect on the patients' cognitive, sensory, emotional, and physical states.
(e) Ability to demonstrate and educate stakeholders on the value of the creative process as a therapeutic tool.
(f) Ability to establish and maintain a therapeutic relationship with professional boundaries that reflect a trusting, empathetic, and respectful interaction.
(g) Skill in collaborating and maintaining liaison with an interdisciplinary team and educating the treatment team on theoretical framework of art therapy interventions.
 A. Yes, I do meet (ALL) the required Knowledge, skills, Abilities (KSAs) noted above.
 B. No, I do not meet (ALL) the required Knowledge, skills, Abilities (KSAs) noted above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙