Position Title
Registered Respiratory Therapist - (Pulmonary)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12967597-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Registered Respiratory Therapist position with our West Palm Beach VA Medical Center. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements. Please provide an answer to each question. Full performance level for this position is GS-11. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is GS-11.

Please refer to the Registered Respiratory Therapist Qualification Standard - GS-0601 for more detailed information regarding the Basic Requirements and Grade Requirements for this Occupational Series.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Education - Successful completion of a respiratory care program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor is required. (If your school program was accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care (CoARC) or its successor at the time of graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating).

NOTE: A transcript from accredited colleges, universities, schools, or institutions must be submitted with your application.

Do you meet the education requirement described above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Licensure - A full, current and unrestricted license from an state to practice as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) is required.

NOTE: You must submit a copy of your license(s) with your application.

Do you meet the licensure requirement described above?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your state(s) license(s) (active and expired): license type, license number, state issued, original issuance date and date of expiration. (You must submit a copy of your licensure(s) with your application).


3.
Credential - A valid, current, unrestricted credential from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) as a Registered Respiratory Therapists (RRT) is REQUIRED at all levels above GS-05.

NOTE: You must submit a copy of your credential(s) with your application.

Do meet the credential requirement described above?
 Yes, I possess a current, unrestricted credential as an Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) issued by the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC).
 No, I do NOT currently possess a RRT Credential and acknowledge that I may NOT be considered further for this position.


3a.
Please provide the following information regarding your credential(s) from the National Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) (active and expired): type, date of original issuance, date of expiration. (You must submit a copy of your credential(s) with your application).


GRADE REQUIREMENTS The following section is used to determine the grade requirements for a Registered Respiratory Therapist at the GS-11 grade level. Your responses are subject to verification and must be demonstrated in your resume. Please be as detailed as possible in your resume and ensure you demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or knowledge, skills and abilities required for the position. We may not make assumptions regarding your experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Registered Respiratory Therapist, GS-11 (Full Performance Level)
Experience, Licensure and Credential.

Candidates must have:
a. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level demonstrating the clinical competencies described at that level.
b. Hold an active license and RRT credential.

Certification. Candidates must hold a CPFT or RPFT and RPSGT.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the requirements above candidates must demonstrate all the following KSAs:
a. Knowledge of complex pulmonary function testing to include cardiopulmonary stress testing, metabolic testing and bronchoprovocation testing.
b. Ability to maintain all equipment related to pulmonary function and polysomnography testing.
c. Ability to maintain a quality control program related to pulmonary function and polysomnography testing.
d. Knowledge of treatment for acute complications for all pulmonary function and polysomnography testing.
e. Skill in scoring data during and post diagnostic testing.
f. Skill in analyzing data during and post diagnostic testing.
g. Skill in preparing output for physician interpretation of data obtained both during and post diagnostic testing.
h. Skill in the calibrations and troubleshooting of polysomnographic equipment.
i. Skill in monitoring both physiologic and diagnostic parameters.

Do you possess the GS-11 level specialized experience and the KSAs as described above?

It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit.
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.


Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.


SF-50 Reminder: Federal Employees must provide their most current SF 50 to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙