Position Title
Fish Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
R2-26-12997603-JA-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans: 

To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: 
A copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; AND
A copy of your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; AND
The Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, SF-15.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the 30% disabled veterans hiring authority?


 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment of Certain Military Spouses (5 CFR 315.612): 

To claim Military Spouse eligibility under 5 CFR 315.612, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority and you are one of the following: 

(1)  The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training
-OR-
(2) The spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty
-OR-
(3) The un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which includes:

All military spouses must submit documentation verifying marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage)
AND
If you are married to an active-duty service member, documentation verifying active-duty status
OR
If you are a spouse of a 100% disabled service member, documentation showing the member of the armed forces retired, or was released or discharged from active duty, with a disability rating of 100 percent.
OR

If you are an un-remarried widow or widower of a service member killed while on active duty, documentation showing the member was released or discharged from active duty due to his or her death while on active duty; documentation verifying the member of the armed forces was killed while serving on active duty; documentation verifying the widow or widower's marriage to the member of the armed forces (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage); and a statement certifying that the individual seeking to use the authority is the un-remarried widow or widower of the service member.

For more information please see OPM's Questions and Answers for Noncompetitive Appointment of Certain Military Spouses. 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Military Spouse?

 Yes
 No


4.
Career Transition Assistance Plan: 

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.


Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


5.
Competitive Promotion/Reassignment/Transfer/Reinstatement

Please select YES to this eligibility if you are ANY of the options below:

Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) who has never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis. OR

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment, or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) AND you never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis.  

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2 in block 24) AND status in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive Reinstatement/Reassignment/Transfer/Promotion?
 Yes
 No


6.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


7.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency (U.S. Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) and are serving or served under a time-limited competitive service appointment (Term, Temporary)?  You may be eligible to compete under the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act, P.L. 114-47.

Current land management agency appointees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees must have initially been hired under competitive procedures for a time-limited appointment; must have served under one or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service; must have been separated (with respect to their most recent separation) for reasons other than misconduct or performance, and must apply for a position covered by these provisions within two years of their most recent date of separation.

You must provide documentation showing all required periods of service which includes ALL Appointment AND Termination SF-50s for EACH appointment as well as ALL performance evaluations or references from supervisors (if employed for periods of time too short to require an appraisal) for each qualifying period of temporary employment claimed.

For more information about Land Management Workforce Eligibility:  USAJOBS Help Center - Land management

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


8.
Non-Competitive Reassignment/Transfer/Re-Promotion/Reinstatement

Are you a Current Federal employee serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service who currently holds or has held, on a permanent basis, a position at the same or higher full performance level (FPL) than the FPL of this position?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
-OR-

Are you a Former Federal employee who served on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service and held, on a permanent basis, a position at the same or higher full performance level (FPL) than the FPL of this position?  NOTE:  Former employees who obtained career tenure are reinstatement eligible indefinitely; former employees who did not obtain career tenure are reinstatement eligible for 3 years from the date of separation; and former employees with veterans' preference who served on a career or career-conditional appointment are reinstatement eligible indefinitely regardless of career tenure. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 must reflect:
career status (Tenure 1) or career-conditional status (Tenure 2 - if you have career-conditional status you must have separated within the last three years OR have veteran's preference).
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Non-competitive Reinstatement/Reassignment/Transfer/Re-Promotion?
 
 Yes
 No


9.
OPM Interchange Agreement and Special Hiring Authorities Do you meet any of the non-competitive eligibilities listed below?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 
Are you an Employee under Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management; or another authority which grants non-competitive eligibility (Postal Career Service Employee; Postal Rate Commission Employee; Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee)?
Certain Overseas Family Members (A family member of a federal employee, or uniformed service member, who has completed 52 weeks of service in a federal position overseas.)
Peace Corps/VISTA Eligible 
A Foreign Service Employee 
DOI or FWS Authorities not regulated by OPM (e.g. Directorate Fellowship Program, Resource Assistants)
Do you wish to be considered under the OPM Interchange Agreement OR one of the identified special hiring authorities?

 Yes
 No


10.
Individuals with Disabilities (Schedule A)

To claim eligibility under the Schedule A hiring authority for Individuals with Disabilities, please confirm you have a qualifying severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit appropriate medical documentation (such as a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist) specifying that you are eligible to apply using the Schedule A hiring authority.  

For more information on hiring Individuals with Disabilities, review the resources in the USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

Are you eligible under the Schedule A, Individuals with Disabilities hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


11.
Please select YES to this eligibility if you are a Public Land Corps (PLC) certificate holder who meets all the requirements below for non-competitive eligibility:
Served as a qualified youth, ages 16 to 30 years inclusive, or a veteran age 35 or younger, on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours on a PLC project as defined in 16 USC 1723(d); and 
Completed the PLC service within the last two (2) years, and 
Possess a copy of the "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-Competitive Hiring Status (PLC)" signed by a bureau PLC Coordinator. 
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:  a copy of your "Certificate of Eligibility for Non-Competitive Hiring Status (PLC)".  
Appointment under this hiring authority must be effective PRIOR to the 2-year eligibility expiration date.

 Yes
 No


12.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


13.
Veterans Employment Opportunities Act (VEOA)
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
• served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
• are entitled to veterans' preference (this includes family members entitled to derived preference)

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service, and/or other documentation which shows you are entitled to veterans' preference which includes completed SF-15 for 10-point preference eligibles and the associated supporting documentation as outlined in the SF-15.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center - Veterans. 

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the VEOA?
 Yes
 No


14.
Veterans Recruitment Authority (VRA)

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR
• are a disabled veteran; OR
• served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR,
• received an Armed Forces Service Medal?

NOTE:  Eligible veterans may be appointed without competition to positions at any grade level through General Schedule (GS) 11 or equivalent. (The promotion potential of the position is not a factor.) 

For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center - Veterans.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the Veterans Recruitment Authority? 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


1.
Select the response that most accurately describes how you satisfy the basic education requirement of positions in the 0482 Fish Biology occupational series.
 I possess a degree in biological science that included (a) at least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology; AND (b) at least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences in such subjects as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, entomology, parasitology, ecology, cellular biology, genetics, or research in these fields. (Excess course work in aquatic subjects may be used to meet this requirement when appropriate.)
 I possess a combination of education and experience that included courses equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences, as shown in above, PLUS appropriate experience or additional education. This combination of education and experience is comparable to successful completion of a full 4-year course of study as described above.
 I do not possess the education.


Minimum Qualification


2.
Select the response that most accurately describes how you satisfy the minimum qualification requirement of this position as a 0482 Fish Biologist at the GS-09 grade level.

 I possess at least one year of full-time specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level (comparable to GS-07) in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience required for this grade is defined as performing work in or directly related to Fish Biology to include monitoring water quality and performing maintenance on fish hatchery equipment; performing fish health assessments and observing fish behavior to ensure there are no potential fish health issues and participating in the development of project plans to conduct assessments of aquatic species populations; working with various stakeholders (Federal, State, Tribal, and civic entities and agencies), to coordinate fish production activities (release and transport of juvenile fish and eggs, transferring fish, etc.); gathering fish production data using software for data collection and record keeping; preparing fish/eggs for shipment or distribution and assist with stocking activities; and generating reports on hatchery operations.   NOTE: Your resume must contain sufficient information in these areas to be found qualified.
 I possess 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a field of study that is directly related the position, and which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as described in 1 and 2 above which together equals 100% of the requirement.
 I do not have the education or specialized experience (or combination) as described above.


2 Page Limit for Resume


3.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.

 Yes
 No


Certification Statement


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙