Position Title
Lead Network Administrator
Agency
Geological Survey
Announcement Number
USGS-SAC-26-12798343-MP-MPW Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 8, 2025 to Friday, December 19, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to all eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered. We can only verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation. Please see the "Required Documents" section of the announcement for specific requirements.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of the Interior employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency (other than the Department of the Interior) who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one year ago.    
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current/former employee of a Federal agency listed below that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) who meets the eligibility requirements for applying under merit promotion procedures for positions in the competitive service?   Eligibility requirements include:
Must currently be serving under an appointment without time limit in another merit system or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; and
Must currently be serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement (some agreements do not cover all positions of the other merit systems); and
Must have served continuously for at least 1 year in the other merit system prior to appointment under the interchange agreement.
List of Organizations with Current Interchange Agreements with OPM:
Tennessee Valley Authority
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Veterans' Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense
Federal Aviation Administration
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration
Corporation for National and Community Service
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee of a Land Management Agency that meets the eligibility requirements listed below?  Land Management agencies include the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Reclamation.
Must have been initially hired into a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and
Must have served under one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and
Must have performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and
If no longer employed by the land management agency, must have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you meet one of the following competitive merit promotion eligibilities?
Current Federal employees serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service who have only held positions with a full performance level (FPL) lower than the FPL of this position.
Former Federal employees who served on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service and only held positions with a full performance level (FPL) lower than the FPL of this position.  NOTE:  Former employees who obtained career tenure are reinstatement eligible indefinitely; former employees who did not obtain career tenure are reinstatement eligible for 3 years from the date of separation; and former employees with veterans' preference who served on a career or career-conditional appointment are reinstatement eligible indefinitely regardless of career tenure.
Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) Eligible.  This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference.
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you meet one of the following non-competitive merit promotion eligibilities?
Current Federal employees serving on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service who currently holds or has held, on a permanent basis, a position at the same or higher full performance level (FPL) than the FPL of this position.
Former Federal employees who served on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service and held, on a permanent basis, a position at the same or higher full performance level (FPL) than the FPL of this position.  NOTE:  Former employees who obtained career tenure are reinstatement eligible indefinitely; former employees who did not obtain career tenure are reinstatement eligible for 3 years from the date of separation; and former employees with veterans' preference who served on a career or career-conditional appointment are reinstatement eligible indefinitely regardless of career tenure. 
 Yes
 No


8.
What is the highest grade you have held on a permanent basis in the federal service?


9.
What is the highest full performance level of a position you've held on a permanent basis in the Federal service?


10.
What was the date of the promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time-in-grade requirement. If not applicable, enter N/A.


11.
Are you a current or former employee of one of the Federal agencies listed below who is eligible for non-competitive consideration?
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a veteran separated under honorable conditions who has a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?  This includes:
Veterans who retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Veterans rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 % or more.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙