Position Title
Student Trainee (Physical Science)
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-CPN-26-PW-12922875-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Pathways Program Internship (Temporary Appointment)

To claim eligibility for a temporary Pathways Program Internship, please confirm one of the following:
You are a current student who is enrolled (or has been accepted for enrollment) at least half-time in an accredited high school, college, professional, technical, vocational, or trade school pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate? OR,
You a current Bureau of Reclamation Pathways Intern, including a veteran who meets those requirements (Reclamation Pathways Intern employee) accepted for enrollment or currently enrolled and seeking a degree (diploma, certificate, etc.) in a qualifying educational institution. OR,
You have completed a qualifying career or technical education program which may include a Registered Apprenticeship Program, Job Corps, Climate Corps, AmeriCorps, or Peace Corps.
Note: You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to maintain your eligibility for this Internship.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit documentation of student status as outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.

For more information, visit the USA Jobs Help Center for Students & Recent Graduates.

Are you a current student eligible for a temporary Pathways Internship?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Merit Hiring Plan
1.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Student Trainee (Physical Science), GS-1399-04. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes your education as it pertains to the minimum qualification requirements for a GS-4 Student Trainee (Physical Science).
 I have completed 2 full academic years of post-high school study or an associate's degree in a directly related field of study that provided the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work of this position.
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements described above.


2.
I am enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an accredited high school, technical or vocational, two or four year college or university, graduate or professional school?

 Yes
 No


3.
What is your major field of study?



4.
I am enrolled for at least half-time course work as defined by the school I am attending.

 Yes
 No


5.
What is your anticipated graduation date (semester/year)?



6.
What is your cumulative GPA? (on a 4.0 scale, rounded up)

 3.5 or above
 3.0 - 3.4
 2.5 - 2.9
 2.45 - 2.0
 1.9 or below


7.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due. I understand that responding "No" to this question will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙