Position Title
MWR Supervisor Recreation Specialist (Athletic Program Manager)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12976295 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Supervisory Recreation Specialist Athletic Program Manager (Fitness Program Manager) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



1.
Which of the following do you possess to meet the basic requirements of the 0188 Recreation Specialist series? If using education to qualify, transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application.

 I have a four year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in general recreation, or one of the appropriate fields of recreation such as outdoor recreation; recreation and parks leadership; wild land recreation management; natural resources recreation; youth recreation; public, urban, or community recreation; special populations recreation (e.g., senior citizens, institutional, etc.); or physical education.
 I have at least two (2) years of appropriate experience that demonstrates the ability to apply the principles of one or more specialty areas of recreation.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience.
 I have no experience with the above.


2.
IAW DoDI 1015.10, per DoD MWR Fitness Standards, which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must reflect a conferred or degree award date and certifications must be current/unexpired. Transcripts and certifications must be provided with application. Select all that apply.
 A. A four-year degree in exercise science or related field
 B. Professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization
 C. Three (3) or more years of experience in the fitness industry/field


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have CPR, First Aid, AED, Bloodborne Pathogen and/or Navy Basic Fitness certification(s). It is recommended to provide any of the unexpired certifications you already have with your application.

 Yes
 No


4.
Please choose the response below that best describes your experience with total fitness facility oversight including operations, programming and staffing.
 I am currently a Fitness Manager in a Navy or other DoW MWR operations.
 My previous position was as a Fitness Manager in a Navy or other DoW MWR operations.
 I am currently or was previously a Fitness Manager within commercial/private sector fitness agency/organization.
 I have never held a Fitness Manager position.


5.
Please choose the response below that best describes your supervisory experience with planning work, scheduling employees and training employees.
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have 3-5 years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation
 I have 1-3 years of supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation.
 I have no supervisory experience supervising employees in a recreation or related facility operation


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙