Position Title
Supervisory Financial Programs Specialist
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
26-FS-12936812-MPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Hyattsville, MD
 C. Kansas City, MO
 D. Philadelphia, PA


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


7.
When The Bureau of Fiscal Service completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For the GS-14, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience applying a wide range of concepts, principles, and practices to lead, direct, or oversee revenue collections, remittance data, or related financial operations programs.

Examples of this experience could include:
Providing direction, advice, and guidance to build, maintain, enhance, and operate revenue collection programs, channels, or related financial operations; OR
Advising agency customers or other stakeholders on issues involving revenue collections, remittance data, deposit reporting, or related financial operations; OR
Leading or conducting analyses of program operations, systems, or financial data to identify trends, risks, and opportunities for improvement, and recommending corrective actions or enhancements.


1.
Choose the answer that best describes your experience:
 I have at least 1 year of professional experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to a GS-13 as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience.
 I do not have the experience described above.


1a.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


2.
Select the response(s) that describe(s) your experience with business analysis principles and practices.
 A. I have conducted business needs assessments to initiate projects and determine needed outcomes.
 B. I have determined what a system, process, or service must do to fulfill business requirements.
 C. I have identified quality of service requirements such as performance, security, and usability.
 D. I have developed project implementation requirements to enable the transition from the current state of business to a future desired state of business.
 E. None of the above.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in analyzing, researching, evaluating, and developing solutions for financial management issues.
 Analyzed financial management issues.
 Wrote financial management procedures, policies, and standards.
 Assisted in developing financial applications.
 Managed the development of written financial procedures and standards for a program.
 Managed the review and analysis of financial management issues for a program.
 Managed the resolution of technical financial management problems related to a program.
 None of the above.


4.
I have direct work experience with the following:
 A. Representing an employer in meetings and making presentations with financial institutions, vendors, customers, and/or payments industry groups and associations.
 B. Managing financial institution (commercial and/or Federal Reserve Bank) relationships as a subject matter expert and point of contact for electronic payments, including Fedwire, ACH, check image, card, and instant payments.
 C. Managing relationships as a point of contact with national and/or regional payment clearinghouses or associations.
 D. Managing relationships as a point of contact with third party software transaction entry/payment processing providers or vendors.
 E. None of the above.


5.
Select all of the following functions you have performed that demonstrate critical thinking/problem solving skills.
 A. Identified and analyzed problems, distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions.
 B. Developed policies, procedures, and plans for meeting the organizational goals and objectives.
 C. Conducted meetings with managers and staff to assess customer satisfaction and ensure customer needs are met.
 D. Evaluated and modified services and products to improve and ensure quality and cost effectiveness of customer service.
 E. Utilized metrics, data, and analysis systems to ensure timely, accurate, and cost-effective actions.
 F. Prepared and presented analytical information to senior management officials within the organization. These analyses are used to explain or justify decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations.
 G. None of the above.


6.
Which of the following best describes your level of supervisory experience?
 I have experience supervising subordinate employees.
 I have experience in a non-supervisory leadership capacity.
 I have experience managing projects in a non-supervisory role.
 None of the above.


7.
For which of the following issues have you made a judgement or decision for?
 A. Personnel issues
 B. Policy and procedure issues
 C. Financial management issues
 D. Budgetary issues
 E. Information technology issues
 F. Line of business issues
 G. Customer relations issues
 H. Public service issues
 I. None of the above


8.
Choose the answer which best describes your experience in a leadership position where you directed the work of a team of people accomplishing a task.
 I have held a supervisory position where I assigned work tasks and checked on the progress and quality of the work.
 I have held a team lead position where I handed work tasks out, but also took on some of the tasks myself. I checked on the progress and quality of the work of others as they completed the tasks.
 I have been a member of a team, not in an official work leadership position, but the quality of my work and my productivity led others to seek my advice on work related issues.
 I have never been in a position of leadership.


9.
Which of the following leadership roles have you been responsible for filling?
 A. I have served as a mentor for a peer as part of my job-related duties.
 B. I have been responsible for coordinating and conducting training sessions for other employees.
 C. I have experience completing critical tasks for a project.
 D. I have met with external customer or management officials as the primary representative for the organization.
 E. I have been a team leader for group efforts to resolve problems and issues.
 F. I have planned work and set deadlines for work to be accomplished by others.
 G. None of the above.


10.
Select activities from the following list that you have regularly performed which demonstrate your skill in project management.
 A. Analyze tasks and functional requirements.
 B. Define projects, allocate resources, and perform project scheduling.
 C. Measure and oversee project performance.
 D. Direct and manage project controls.
 E. Direct and manage reporting requirements.
 F. Implement change management for an active project.
 G. Manage a project in order to reach the assigned outcome.
 H. Manage technical projects involving complex hardware and software applications of a call order management system.
 I. Utilize advanced software tools for the planning and control of projects.
 J. Conduct a project risk analysis and recommended mitigation strategies.
 K. Apply the discipline of earned value management (EVM) to a project.
 L. None of the above.


11.
Choose all examples that best match your experience assessing progress relative to goals, plans, and changing needs.
 A. Identified key issues and applied innovative solutions to make organizational financial improvements.
 B. Set standards, goals, and targets and held self-accountable for achieving financial goals.
 C. Set standards, goals, and targets and held others accountable for achieving financial goals.
 D. Redefined program or unit goals as a result of change in policy or organizational mission.
 E. None of the above.


12.
Select the response that best describes your ability to use project management principles and methods to plan, manage, and control projects throughout the entire project life cycle.
 I have experience using project management principles, methodologies, and tools for a large institution. I have provided project oversight and created project plans to manage and control projects throughout their lifecycle, including preparing, justifying, and/or administering the budget for an assigned program area. I have planned, coordinated, and led project management and process improvement efforts, including conducting Integrated Baseline Reviews and monitoring projects and contracts using Earned Value Management and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plans. I have monitored and managed project activities and resources to mitigate risk. I have also developed detailed project plans for information technology and non-information technology projects.
 I have experience as a member of a project management team in a large institution. I have assisted in planning, managing, and controlling projects to ensure successful outcomes. I have developed project plans for information technology and non-information technology-based projects with assistance from senior personnel or others. I have also conducted and documented assessments to ensure that project phases and deadlines were met.
 I have experience using project management principles, methodologies, and tools for a large institution. I have provided project oversight and created project plans to manage and control projects throughout their lifecycle. I have planned, coordinated, and led project management and process improvement efforts. I have monitored and managed project activities and resources to mitigate risk. I have also developed detailed project plans for information technology and non-information technology projects.
 I have experience managing projects using project management principles, methodologies, and tools. I have planned, coordinated, and led project management, requirements, and process improvement processes. I have managed and controlled projects throughout their life cycle.
 None of the above.


13.
From the following list, select one choice that best describes your communication skills.
 I have regularly served as a primary point of contact when dealing with managers and executives.
 I have regularly participated in discussions with managers and executives in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have cooperative attitudes.
 I have regularly conducted discussions as a program representative, in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade persons or groups. This included using communication skills to approach individuals or groups who are skeptical or in disagreement to obtain the desired effect (e.g., gaining compliance with an established policy or regulation).
 I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of individuals or groups.
 None of the above.


14.
Select one description that best represents your highest level of experience interacting with various groups and individuals.
 Experience that involves routinely working with external management officials to resolve unique or complex issues in a way that reflects a partnership or shared problem solving, such as sharing options and initiating ongoing contacts with managers to foster strong working relationships.
 Experience that involves routinely working with internal managers to resolve issues and problems that arise daily. This involves briefing managers on new or revised regulations and discussing policy alternatives.
 Experience that involves routinely educating, advising, or participating in meetings with groups or individuals when contacted to address issues or problems. This includes developing rapport and establishing credibility to resolve issues that are mutually satisfactory to all parties.
 Experience that involves explaining agency policy and regulations and providing background of the rationale for such policies and using negotiating techniques to ensure full compliance.
 None of the above.


15.
Which of the following challenges have you successfully met in communicating with others in jobs you have held?
 A. I have solved operational problems by bringing parties together to resolve conflicts or disputes.
 B. I have led the development of alternative or new solutions in collaboration with others.
 C. I have influenced or motivated others to accept my plan or approach.
 D. I have solicited information from sources who were reluctant at first.
 E. None of the above.


16.
Please choose the one statement that best describes your experience communicating in writing.
 I have independently generated effective, detailed, well-written documents that required no editing, and are of a quality suitable for review by senior executives.
 I have consistently generated effective, detailed, well written documents that require little editing prior to distribution.
 I have developed and compiled written documents for a wide variety of audiences that required moderate editing prior to distribution.
 None of the above.


17.
Choose one of the following statements that best describes your experience with program and/or systems development.
 I have experience working on a team to define system and/or program requirements/enhancements for a new or existing enterprise-wide collections program.
 I have experience serving on mission-critical, collections processing program and/or system with responsibility for assisting with full lifecycle of the system development process including defining requirements, development, testing, and deployment.
 I have experience as a manager overseeing a group of individuals with responsibility for the development of mission-critical, collections processing program and/or system which included managing the full development lifecycle, budgetary aspects of the project, and implementing the system.
 None of the above.


18.
Which types of projects have you had significant involvement in (as a Core team member or Subject Matter Expert (SME))? (choose one)
 System development projects for automated financial systems
 Upgrades of automated financial systems
 Customer implementations in an existing automated financial system
 Creation of reports from the data contained in an automated financial system
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙