Position Title
Supervisory Senior Asset Management Specialist
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-12956965-26-CRSO Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters in the Competitive Service (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard)? who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard) who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Your responses in this Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be removed from consideration.



1.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience, education or combination of education and experience as related to the basic qualification requirements, to qualify for this Supervisory Senior Asset Management Specialist position at the GS-15 grade level.
NOTE: Your resume must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal service, or comparable experience not gained through federal service. For this position, specialized experience is defined as: 1) Leading and overseeing a comprehensive real property management program at the department or agency level, including the development, implementation, and evaluation of policies, procedures, and strategic plans to ensure the effective lifecycle management of real property assets. 2) Conducting complex analyses, risk assessments, and forecasting to inform executive decision-making, and leading modernization initiatives and performance metrics across multiple organizational units. 3) Engaging with internal and external stakeholders to resolve high-profile real property asset management issues.
 I do not have the specialized experience as described in any of the above statements and do not qualify for this position.


2.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Your responses in this Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.

 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration of this position.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙