Position Title
SUPV HR SPEC (MILITARY) (TITLE 32)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12828669-AR-25-253 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 11, 2025 to Monday, November 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required. 

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at (G1-MED) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCARNG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCARNG military membership) working at a NC ARNG unit/activity, other than (G1-MED) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Army National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Army, Army Reserve, or a State/Territory Army National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Enlisted (E7-E9), Warrant (CW2-CW5), or Officer (O3-O5)?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201-11/12 Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Military).
 I HAVE a valid understanding of the basic principles and concepts of 0201 occupational series and at the GS-09 level.
 I DO NOT HAVE a valid understanding of the basic principles and concepts of 0201 occupational series and at the GS-09 level.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201-11/12 Supervisory Human Resources Specialist (Military).
 I HAVE experience, 1) at least one year of specialist experiences at the GS-09 level, 2) in career broadening human resources programs such as, leading, planning and scheduling work in a manner that promoted smooth flow and even distribution of assigned work requirements, 3)that included guiding employees on human resources military and/or civilian program tasks, 4) in conducting employee performance evaluations; mentoring junior officers, enlisted employees, and federal civilians; managing resources and budgets; and directing assigned work, or leading the employees on program tasks, inspections, exercises, deployments, and/or mobilizations, 5) in effectively and efficiently planning and scheduling work, 6) in leading people and human resources personnel activities that included directing and assigning tasks and projects, 7) in structuring assignments to create viable procedures that resulted in measured and improved task processes, 8) in creating and implementing improvements in mentoring programs and strategies, executing training applications and career development that resulted in the employees’ increased performance values in quality work, timeliness considerations, and work efficiencies, and 9) in working within merit principles, equal employment, and affirmative action guidelines.
 I DO NOT have at least at least one year of specialist experiences at the GS-09 level , education or training listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙