Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (SYSADMIN) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12967834-AR-26-118 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Information Management (DOIM) in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the Directorate of Information Management (DOIM) in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possesses one year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the GS 11 grade level that demonstrates the ability to serve as project leader responsible for planning and coordinating the installation, testing, system security configuration and monitoring, operation, troubleshooting and maintenance of all server hardware and software; knowledge of a variety of operating systems on desktop and server assets in order to administer user accounts and perform backup operations; and knowledge of and skill in applying the principles and methods for planning, updating, and integrating information system components, including software, controlling future releases, and documenting information and physical characteristics of an information system or product. The specialized experience must also include skill in troubleshooting problems in the data center and implementing changes on multifaceted and interdependent computer platforms and skill in programming sufficient to modify application code, devise software patches or workarounds, document problems and advise the responsible vendor or other outside party on support issues.
 Yes
 No


2.
In detail, explain your experience serving as project leader responsible for developing, assigning, and coordinating duties and projects for systems administrators.



3.
In detail, explain your experience providing technical assistance and analysis to other IT personnel involved in system design, programming, database design, and adapting commercially available software.


4.
In detail, explain your experience developing guidelines, standard operating procedures (SOPs), bulletins and flyers concerning the operation/use of C4 systems, services, and activities.


5.
In detail, explain your experience planning and scheduling the installation of new or modified hardware, operating systems, and software applications.


6.
In detail, explain your experience developing policy for all systems storage requirements throughout the state.


7.
In detail, explain your experience diagnosing system failures to isolate source of problems between equipment, system software, and application programs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙