Position Title
Supervisory (Chief) Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12987022-26-JW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (Chief) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Proficiency. Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists (DRT) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 38 U.S.C. 7407(d). Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Certification. All applicants of this grade level must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R).

Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Education. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school Diagnostic Radiologic Technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)? NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.

 Yes
 No


4.
To qualify at the GS-12 level: Do you have at least one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level that fully meets the KSAs at that level?

In addition to the experience/education above, applicants must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's):
Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, including responsibility for assignment of work performed; performance evaluations; recommendations for appointments, awards, advancements, and, when appropriate, disciplinary actions; and identification of continuing education and training needs.
Ability to serve as a consultant to other facility personnel in evaluating and planning radiologic technology services for the most complex cases.
Ability to participate in research studies and/or as a consultant to others conducting research.
Ability to consult with staff and resident physicians through patient presentation, attending ward rounds, and specialty clinics and/or conferences, etc.
Ability to assess, plan, and evaluate the delivery of radiologic technology services at the facility.

 I have one full year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 None of the above describe my qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙