Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
National Aeronautics and Space Administration - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
NASA-26-IMP-12912571-RW Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Mar 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current NASA federal employee serving on a career or career conditional appointment, whose permanent grade and promotion potential are both lower than the grade of the promotion potential listed in the announcement?

If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment, you can review your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1)
To find your promotion potential, you can review your latest promotion, reassignment or appointment SF-50.

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position that meets the time in grade requirements for the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NASA federal employee serving on a career or career conditional appointment, whose permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, OR whose permanent promotion potential is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement?

If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment and/or if your permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, you can review your most recent SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1); AND
your permanent grade is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement.
If you are unsure if you are serving on a career or career-conditional appointment and/or if your permanent promotion potential is the same or greater than the promotion potential listed in the announcement, you can review your most recent appointment of promotion SF-50. This SF-50 must reflect:
career or career-conditional (tenure in block 24 is 1 or 2); AND
status in the competitive service (position occupied in block 34 is 1); AND
a remark in block 45 that states, "Full performance level of employee's position is (pay plan and grade)". The listed grade must match the promotion potential listed in the announcement.
If you answer yes to one of these questions, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position at the same or greater grade or promotion potential as the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current NASA federal employee on a term appointment under the NASA Flexibility Act of 2004 with current eligibility to convert to a permanent appointment?

If you are unsure if you are on an eligible term appointment, you can review your SF-50 that documents your term appointment. This SF-50 must reflect:
in block 5-B, Term Appt NTE, AND
in block 45, a remark that states "Employee has competed under an announcement offering the potential for conversion to permanent appointment under P.L. 108-201, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 9806."
If your term appointment SF-50 contains the remark above, you also must have completed at least two years of continuous service under a term appointment AND your performance rating must be at least fully successful.
If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both the SF-50 that documents your term appointment, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in a position that meets the time in grade requirements for the advertised position, such as a promotion or appointment SF-50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current NASA federal employee on a current Schedule A appointment for individuals with disabilities?

If you are unsure if you are on a current Schedule A appointment for individuals with disabilities, you can review your SF-50 that documents your excepted appointment. This SF-50 must reflect:
in block 5-B, Exc Appt or Exc Appt NTE, AND
in block 5-C, WUM, WTA or WTB.
If you answer yes to this question, you must submit both your most recent SF-50 that reflects your current title, series and grade, and the SF-50 that shows when you began serving in your Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA?

If you are unsure if you are eligible, confirm the following:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
If you answer yes to this question you must submit the following:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent SF- 50 that includes your position title and grade.
For more information on qualifying conditions for CTAP you may go to: The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)


 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marshall Space Flight Ctr, Huntsville, AL
 B. Armstrong Flight Research Ctr, Edwards AFB, CA
 C. Ames Research Ctr, Moffett Field, CA
 D. NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC
 E. Kennedy Space Ctr, Kennedy Space Center, FL
 F. Goddard Space Flight Ctr, Greenbelt, MD
 G. NASA Shared Services, Bay Saint Louis, MS
 H. Stennis Space Ctr, Stennis Space Center, MS
 I. Glenn Research Ctr, Cleveland, OH
 J. Johnson Space Ctr, Houston, TX
 K. Langley Research Ctr, Hampton, VA


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Providing senior-level advisory services to executives or organizational leadership on complex human capital matters with multi-organizational or enterprise impact; Interpreting and applying Federal HR laws, regulations, and policies (e.g., Title 5, OPM guidance, merit system principles) and making recommendations for complex and controversial issues based on sound interpretation of guidelines and practices; Leading or advising on high-visibility personnel actions in areas such as executive resources, classification and position management, employee relations, workforce planning, or organizational design.
 I do not have the experience described above.


WRITTEN INTERVIEW INSTRUCTIONS:
This technical assessment consists of scenario-based questions that ask you to describe your technical experience in three (3) areas.

Response Requirements
For each question, give a specific, factual example from your actual work or education experience. Focus your response on the situation, your actions, and the outcome. Ensure your responses are clear and concise. Each response will be limited to 700 characters or less (including spaces).

Verification Requirements
For each response, you are required to identify a supervisor who can verify the experience you described. You will provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who is familiar with the specific situation in your response.

Assessment Evaluation
Your responses will be reviewed and the results of the evaluation will determine whether you advance to the next step in the hiring process, so ensure your responses accurately reflect your capabilities and most relevant experiences.

Assessment Integrity
When completing this assessment, use your own words and work independently. Do NOT use outside help or assistance from others, and do NOT consult artificial intelligence (AI) tools, including large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, Copilot, or similar platforms and applications. Your responses must reflect your own knowledge, experience, and writing.


2.
Written Interview Question 1: Provide an example of when you applied your knowledge of human capital policies or programs to address a workforce or organizational challenge. What factors did you consider, what actions did you take, and what was the result?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


2a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


3.
Written Interview Question 2: Share an example of when you had to explain or implement HR policy or regulatory guidance that was unpopular or difficult for a manager or organization to accept. How did you address the issue, what steps did you take to ensure compliance, and what was the outcome?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


3a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


4.
Written Interview Question 3: Describe a time when a manager or leadership team sought your technical expertise to resolve a complex issue. What analysis or options did you provide, how did you communicate your recommendation, and what impact did your guidance have on the final decision?

NOTE: Do NOT disclose classified or sensitive information in your response.


4a.
Provide the name and contact information for a past or present supervisor who can verify this experience or behavior.


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙