Position Title
Health Scientist
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-IMP-26-12913757 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current employee of the Health and Human Services (HHS) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review USAJOBS Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. If you elect not to answer the questions, you will not be disqualified or screened out from consideration for this vacancy.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Health Scientist position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and/or experience and meets the Basic Qualification Requirements for Health Scientist GS-0601-14.
 I have a Bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position. This degree must be from an educational program from an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education (https://ope.ed.gov/accreditation/) at the time the degree was obtained.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience and meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Health Scientist GS-0601-14.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service, to include experience in formulating and evaluating public health data systems to support research, surveillance, and program operations, designing and leading scientific projects aimed at identifying and addressing health system challenges, and developing and implementing laboratory and surveillance data systems to solve public health data problems.
 I do not meet the experience requirements described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙