Position Title
Maintenance Worker (Maintenance Vehicle Operator)
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-26-12986796-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Maintenance Worker (Motor Vehicle Operator) position with Department of War. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Maintenance Worker (Motor Vehicle Operator) duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Maintenance Worker (MVO) tasks such as tightening, straightening, reattaching, and painting all types of handrails. I can perform re-stenciling cautions/warnings on steps/curbs. I am skilled in replacing damaged/missing lens on walkway light fixtures, six-foot stepladder accessible fixtures and globes, broken or missing splash blocks. I can refasten and reseal gutters and downspouts. I am able to recalk metal trim joints on doors and windows. I can adjust, tighten, repair or replace door hinges or hardware. I am skilled in repairing deteriorated, cracked, or chipped concrete. I am skilled in general contracting work such as repairing various types of walls, flooring, and fixtures. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Maintenance Worker (MVO) tasks such as tightening, straightening, reattaching, and painting all types of handrails. I can apply paint to various surfaces. I am skilled in replace missing lens on walkway light fixtures, globes or broken splash blocks. I can refasten gutters and downspouts. I am able to recalk doors and windows. I can tighten and replace door hinges or hardware. I am skilled in repairing deteriorated, cracked, or chipped concrete. I am skilled in general contracting work such as repairing various types of walls, flooring, and fixtures. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Maintenance Worker (MVO) tasks such as applying coating materials such as paint and primer to surfaces. I am skilled in replacing damaged/missing lens on walkway light fixtures, six-foot stepladder accessible fixtures and globes, broken or missing splash blocks. I am able to recalk metal trim joints on doors and windows. I can replace door hinges or hardware. I am skilled in general contracting work such as repairing various types of walls, flooring, and fixtures. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Maintenance Worker (MVO) tasks or I have received training on performing minor repairs to electrical fixtures and applying paint to surfaces.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙