Position Title
Research Geneticist (Plants)
Agency
Agricultural Research Service
Announcement Number
ARS-D26MWA-12958916-HCL Opens in new window
Open Period
May 12, 2026 to Jun 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Stuttgart, AR
 B. Albany, CA
 C. Parlier, CA
 D. Miami, FL
 E. Tifton, GA
 F. Hilo, HI
 G. Aberdeen, ID
 H. Urbana, IL
 I. Saint Paul, MN
 J. Mississippi State, MS
 K. Poplarville, MS
 L. Stoneville, MS
 M. Lincoln, NE
 N. Geneva, NY
 O. Raleigh, NC
 P. Fargo, ND
 Q. Woodward, OK
 R. Charleston, SC
 S. Florence, SC
 T. Jackson, TN
 U. Lubbock, TX
 V. Logan, UT
 W. Prosser, WA
 X. Pullman, WA
 Y. Madison, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14
15


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Responses are optional, but each essay response field requires text to be entered to allow you to submit your application. Type N/A if you choose not to respond to any of the next four essay questions.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for the Research Geneticist (Plants) position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If, after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.


1.
Select the answer below that describes your education as it relates to the basic qualification requirements for the Genetics Series (0440). If you select A, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I have a degree in genetics; or one of the basic biological sciences that included at least 9 semester hours in genetics.
 My education is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
Choose one answer that best describes your education and/or experience for the GS-12 grade level. If you select A or C, please submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.

 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree directly related to the duties of the position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service conducting research related to plant genetic improvement; AND presenting research findings at scientific conferences or academic meetings; AND publishing research results in peer-reviewed scientific journals.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience.
 I do not meet the related education or specialized experience requirements as described above.


3.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience for the GS-13 grade level.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service planning and conducting research related to improving crop productivity, disease and pest resistance, abiotic stress tolerance, or consumer quality; AND presenting research findings at scientific conferences; AND publishing research results as the primary author in peer-reviewed scientific journals; AND collaborating with internal and external stakeholders.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above.


4.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience for the GS-14 grade level.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal Service planning, conducting, and leading team research related to improving crop productivity, disease and pest resistance, abiotic stress tolerance, and consumer quality; AND presenting research findings at scientific conferences; AND publishing independent research results as the primary author in peer-reviewed scientific journals; AND establishing or expanding collaboration with internal and external stakeholders.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above.


5.
Choose one answer that best describes your experience for the GS-15 grade level.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal Service developing, executing, and managing a research program related to crop improvement; AND presenting research findings at national and international scientific conferences; AND publishing independent research findings related to crop improvement as the primary author in peer-reviewed scientific journals; AND serving as Principal Investigator on a collaborative research grant.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements as described above.


6.
Select the statement that best reflects your education and/or experience.

 A. I possess one or more of the following: (1) a GPA of 2.7 or higher for a degree from an accredited junior college, college, university or other baccalaureate institution; or (2) a GPA of 3.0 or higher in my major field of study for a degree from an accredited junior college, college, university or other baccalaureate institution; or (3) a GPA of 2.7 or higher for at least 24 semester hours of directly related course work (e.g., plant breeding, plant genetics and/or genomics, phenomics, plant molecular biology, and bioinformatics) above the high school level. If you answer yes, please submit a copy of your transcripts.
 B. I am a member of a national honor society (other than a freshman honor society) recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 C. I have completed all requirements for an advanced degree (beyond the baccalaureate) in a directly related field from an accredited institution. Directly related fields of study include plant breeding, plant genetics and/or genomics, phenomics, plant molecular biology, and bioinformatics. If you answer yes, please submit a copy of your transcripts.
 D. I have experience utilizing genomic resources to identify candidate genes involved in determining particular traits; OR developing optimal strategies to identify relevant genes, introduce their expression, transfer genes, or accomplish gene editing; OR releasing plant germplasm including public release and cultivar development in industry.
 E. I do not possess any of the education and/or experience described above.


7.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent, or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙