Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST (T32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12837552-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 26, 2025 to Friday, December 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


2.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review. In describing your experience in your resume, please be clear and specific. Assumptions regarding your experience will not be made.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Qualification Requirement for the Program Analyst, GS-0343-11 position.

 I have at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09) with specialized experience, education, or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level with experience analyzing and interpreting policies and the procedures of higher headquarters/management as to applicability to current policies. Experience presenting and discussing complex matters in a clear and convincing manner. Experience in communicating with people from various backgrounds and circumstances. Expert knowledge of administrative regulations and operating procedures to identify, analyze, and provide recommendations for improving management, administrative, operations and maintenance methods and procedures. Interpreting technical requirements allows the incumbent to make independent judgments and provide recommended changes to improve efficiencies. -Knowledge of Air Force (USAF) Air National Guard (ANG) Army National Guard (ARNG) Army, Air Force, Navy, Marines, and Coalition military policies, procedures, regulations and precedents; enabling the incumbent to correlate and implement change to program goals and objectives directly associated with the TACP mission objectives. In-depth specialized knowledge of Tactical Combat Communications missions, equipment, objectives, terminology, and management practices. The ability to plan and conduct projects and studies to recommend future changes in their effectiveness and efficiencies for mission processes and programs. In-depth knowledge in conducting interviews and evaluations, analyzing findings and developing recommendations for corrections or improvements in the evaluated program. Providing evaluation criteria for studies and evaluations ensuring there are standards to measure effectiveness of individuals' and programs. Knowledge and skill in applying statistical analysis, sampling methods and techniques to determine compliance with applicable standards. Ability to review, analyze, and resolve conflicts between local and higher headquarters regulations. Knowledge of AF and ANG personnel, training and administrative programs, principles and practices. Incumbent can analyze and make recommendations concerning all aspects of TACP operations enabling the incumbent to recommend centralized planning and decentralized execution of mission objectives. Knowledge of assigned communications-electronics, telecommunication systems, and computer networking equipment, its characteristics, and assorted support equipment. Knowledge of electronics equipment inspection methods, techniques and practices to detect conditions that may compromise quality. Ability to prepare technical reports to identify specific technical problem areas and to recommend corrective action.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I have a combination of successfully completed post-high school education and experience. I understand that by selecting this option, I must provide transcripts with my application documents.
 I do not meet the qualification requirements listed above.


2.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas Air National Guard.
 I am a current military member of another component –OR- prior member eligible to immediately become a Texas Air National Guard member.
 I am a civilian with no prior military experience.


3.
Are you a AB (E-1) not to exceed SSgt (E-5)? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard in the ranks of AB (E-1) not to exceed SSgt (E-5)?.

 Yes, I am a AB (E-1) not to exceed SSgt (E-5)?
 No, I am a civilian with no prior military experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?

AFSC: 1D772R
 Yes
 No


5.
Please type your rank and AFSC in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance? -OR- Are you eligible to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?
 Yes
 No


7.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙