Position Title
Senior Counsel (Detail Opportunity)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRM-DET-028 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
1.
Applicants must be current Federal employees.

Do you meet the condition described above?

 Yes, I meet the condition described above.
 No, I do not meet the condition described above.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in the questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙