Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12992008-26-JD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 20, 2026 to Aug 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Gainesville, FL
 B. Lake City, FL


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Dietitian (Clinical) position at the Malcom Randall Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you qualify for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements .


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a U.S. Citizen or Naturalized Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?
 Yes
 No


To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. NOTE: Applicants pending the completion of the registration requirement may be selected (GS-07 or GS-09 only) and given a one-year temporary appointment. Please indicate Yes or No for the following questions:


3.
Are you currently or will you be registered with the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing branch of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics formerly known as the American Dietetic Association (ADA) as a Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) or Registered Dietitian (RD)?Note: Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN/RD credential.

Non-credentialed Dietitians who otherwise meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a full-time temporary appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C. ? 7405(c)(2). May only be appointed at the GS-07 or GS-09 level and may not be promoted/converted until they obtain their RDN credential. Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following:
Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college or university or foreign equivalent (refer to ii below). Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND and meet ACEND's International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam.
Completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND accredited programs are located on the ACEND website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory.
 Yes, I hold a RDN Credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, therefore I meet the education requirement of a bachelor's degree or higher.
 I am a non-CDR registered applicant, but I meet the minimum qualification requirements. I have earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent and completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. I am pending CDR registration and applying for consideration at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level and I am willing to accept a temporary appointment.
 I meet the grandfathering provisions and have protected status.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position.


3a.
Please indicate your registration type (RDN or RD), issue date, and/or date you expect to take the registration exam.


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. For the position of Clinical Dietitian you must meet all the basic qualification requirements and all the requirements defined in the specific assignment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-07 Dietitian (Clinical) (Entry Level Developmental)

Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) entry-level developmental position. They work under the guidance of a Dietitian who is at the full performance level or above, performing increasingly complex tasks designed to prepare them for promotion. Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments for patients with lower acuity using the NCP while developing skills to apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines. Clinical Dietitians learn to interpret research, apply whole health principles and develop patient-centered goals. They develop skills in accurate record keeping of clinical activities and complete patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians comply with The Joint Commission (TJC) requirements and other accrediting agency standards to ensure safe and quality patient care. They collaborate with the Food Operations Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience and ensure patient satisfaction.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-09 Dietitian (Clinical) (Developmental) - Experience and Education. Individual must meet at least one of the requirements below.

Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) developmental position. They perform increasingly complex tasks under general supervision. Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments using the NCP. They develop skills in applying evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpreting research and utilizing whole health principles to develop patient-centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. They maintain accurate record keeping of daily clinical activities and patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians comply with TJC and other accrediting agency standards to ensure safe and quality patient care. They collect data related to performance improvement activities within Nutrition and Food Services (NFS) and assist in implementing new initiatives. Clinical Dietitians collaborate with the Food Service Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience, support patient satisfaction and serve as a liaison between clinical units and the food service section.

 OR 

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:- Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.- Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.- Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).- Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.- Ability to develop patient-centered goals.- Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.- Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.

Do you meet the required education, experience or education/experience combination above?
 At least 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-7).
 Masters degree from a regionally accredited university or college in the field of dietetics or closely related field.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-11 Dietitian (Clinical) (Full Performance Level) 

Experience. To qualify for the GS-11 you must possess at least one (1) year of experience as an RDN/RD equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-09).

Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical) full performance level position. Clinical Dietitians conduct comprehensive nutrition assessments for Veterans using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation), assuring high-quality nutrition care. They apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpret research and utilize whole health principles to develop patient- 8 centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. They are accountable for independent and accurate record keeping, autonomous coverage of daily clinical activities and efficiently completing patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians are knowledgeable of and ensure work accomplishments comply with TJC and other accrediting agency standards and ensure continuous improvement of safe and quality care. They collect and analyze data related to performance improvement activities within NFS, lead activities in the implementation of new initiatives and collaborate with stakeholders. Clinical Dietitians frequently collaborate with the food service section and leadership staff to enhance the Veteran's dining experience, support patient satisfaction and serve as a liaison between clinical units and the Food Service Section.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:- Skill in delivering patient care using the Nutrition Care Process (NCP) (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring, and evaluation).- Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.- Skill in developing patient-centered goals.- Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.- Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.- Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.

Do you possess the requirements for the GS-11 grade level described above?
 Yes
 No



Resume Reminders - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: * Job Title * Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) * Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)* Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.* Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications.* To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title.* If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. * Duties (be as detailed as possible)



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙