Position Title
Teacher (Substitute)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12840058-EX-S Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Tuesday, March 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


3.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible

I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Rucker, AL
 B. Maxwell AFB, AL
 C. Fort Benning, GA
 D. Fort Stewart, GA
 E. Fort Campbell, KY
 F. Fort Knox, KY
 G. West Point, NY
 H. Camp Lejeune, NC
 I. Fort Bragg, NC
 J. Beaufort, SC
 K. Fort Jackson, SC
 L. Clarksville, TN
 M. Dahlgren, VA
 N. Quantico, VA


Please select only one school you wish to be considered for.


2.
Please identify only one school where you are interested in being a Substitute. When a Principal identifies a need to hire Substitutes, only qualified and eligible applicants who have expressed interest in that specific school are referred for consideration.

IMPORTANT: When selections are made, an applicant will receive a job offer for their choice school which will become their "home school." When needed, Substitutes may be requested to provide coverage at other schools within the commuting area.
Camp Lejeune - Bitz IS
Camp Lejeune - Brewster MS
Camp Lejeune - DeLalio ES
Camp Lejeune - Heroes ES
Camp Lejeune - Johnson PS
Camp Lejeune - Lejeune HS
Camp Lejeune - Tarawa Terrace ES
Dahlgren - Dahlgren School
Fort Benning - Dexter ES
Fort Benning - Faith MS
Fort Benning - McBride ES
Fort Benning - Stowers ES
Fort Benning - White ES
Fort Bragg - Albritton MS
Fort Bragg - Bowley ES
Fort Bragg - Devers ES
Fort Bragg - Gordon ES
Fort Bragg - Hampton PS
Fort Bragg - Irwin IS
Fort Bragg - Poole ES
Fort Bragg - Shughart ES
Fort Bragg - Shughart MS
Fort Campbell - Andre Lucas ES
Fort Campbell - Barkley ES
Fort Campbell - Barsanti ES
Fort Campbell - Fort Campbell HS
Fort Campbell - Fort Campbell MS
Fort Campbell - Marshall ES
Fort Jackson - Pinckney ES
Fort Jackson - Pierce Terrace ES
Fort Knox - Fort Knox HS
Fort Knox - Kingsolver ES
Fort Knox - Scott MS
Fort Knox - Van Voorhis ES
Fort Rucker - Ellis Parker ES
Fort Stewart - Diamond ES
Fort Stewart - Kessler ES
Fort Stewart - Murray ES
Maxwell AFB - Maxwell AFB E/MS
MCAS Beaufort (Laurel Bay) - Bolden E/MS
MCAS Beaufort (Laurel Bay) - Elliott ES
Quantico - Crossroads ES
Quantico - Quantico M/HS
West Point - West Point ES
West Point - West Point MS


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Substitute position with the Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA). Your resume, supporting documentation, and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the statement that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Substitute.

NOTE: If you certify you possess a Bachelor's degree or higher, you must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 I possess a Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university. NOTE: you must submit a copy of your official transcript (in English).
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙