Position Title
POWER PLANT MECHANIC
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12969195-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to Jun 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Mechanic position with the Department of Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Power Plant Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties of a journeyman mechanic which includes overhauling, maintaining, and installing various types of hydraulic equipment, machinery, and control systems using a variety of tools and measuring devices. I can improvise procedures and techniques or develop new ones to determine the cause of deficient operation, develop needed changes to equipment, and perform complete operational checkout of repaired equipment; and locate malfunctions, and make required repairs and adjustments, using plans, specifications, and instructions that are incomplete or inaccurate. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a journeyman mechanic which includes applying methods, procedures, and techniques to lay out, install, align, overhaul, repair, and maintain various types of hydraulic equipment, machinery, and control systems. I can examine and locate causes of operational failures, determine the nature and extent of repairs, and make needed repairs by applying the requirements contained in technical manuals, blueprints, and other documents. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties of a journeyman mechanic which includes diagnosing, repairing, adjusting, maintaining, and lubricating bearings, gears, engines, compressors, and hydraulic equipment. I have the ability to operate machine tools and equipment necessary to produce products within tolerances. I can perform general machinery repair, dismantling, assembling and installing main and auxiliary machinery or hydraulic equipment. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple tasks associated with assisting a journeyman level mechanic with maintenance or repair work under close supervision or I have received training.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙