Position Title
File Clerk
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13025906-26-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


Education/Experience. You may qualify for this position based on either two-years of education above high school or one year of general experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level that is in or related to the position or a combination of experience and education.

Education: Successfully completed two years of education above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite is creditable This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school.

Creditable generalized experience is progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of this position.

Generalized experience includes but not limited to:
Knowledge of computer technology and procedure regarding imaging and scanning applications, fax applications, and numerous computer and electronic patient record applications.
Thorough knowledge of terminal digit filing by social security number and alphabetic filing in order to maintain medical, administrative, perpetual and other resource documents maintained in the file room.
Knowledge of the confidentiality and privacy regulations pertaining to patient records.
Knowledge of filing sequence of both administrative and medical records is necessary to properly index and scan information into electronic patient medical records.
Knowledge of the functions performed within the units serviced to determine the subject matter of diverse types of records information, correspondence, and forms for filing and scanning purposes.
Knowledge of record disposal procedures to identify and prepare records maintained in the file room for transfer to the Federal Records Center.


1.
Selection the option that best describes your level of experience or education.

 I have at least one year of generalized experience, with progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position to be filled. This experience must be documented in your resume.
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite is creditable for this position. This education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school. You must provide transcripts with your application.
 I have a combination of education and general experience to qualify for this position. Only education beyond the first 60 semester hours that is creditable toward meeting the one-year of generalized experience requirement. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of experience.
 I do not have the education or the generalized experience for this position.


This position requires the skills of a qualified typist. In addition to meeting the experience and or education requirements, you must be able to type at least 40 words per minute. All candidates MUST provide a certificate of proficiency from a school or other organization authorized to issue such certificates by the Office of Personnel Management local office, or by self-certifying their proficiency. Performance test results and certificates of proficiency are acceptable for 3 years. Agencies may verify proficiency skills of self-certified applicants by administering the appropriate performance test. All candidates must submit documentation of his/her typing proficiency with their application package to clearly indicate the number of words typed per minute. Example of a Self-Certifying proficiency statement:

Date:

I, ______________, can type at least 40 words per minute.

Signature in pen

Print Name


2.
I have included documentation of my typing proficiency with my application package that clearly indicate the number of words typed per minute. (Must provide documentation which can be a signed and dated statement of self-certification (Example Above). Failure to provide such a statement or document will result in NOT being considered.)

 Yes, I have provided a signed and dated (within 30 day) statement or other approved documentations with my application to support this answer. Failure to include a signed and dated statement will result in not meeting this requirement, and you WILL NOT be referred or considered.
 No, I do not have the required skills as a qualified typist for this position.


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Your resume must include your name and contact information, phone, email, and address.

Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
(REQUIRED)
(1.) Employer Name
(2.) Employer City, State
(3.) Job title (separate federal job and military experience by grade/rank level(s))
(4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
(5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc.
(6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications.

To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to.

We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


3.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed.
 No, I did not read or following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy.


SF-50, Notice of Personal Action is required for federal employees to determine your eligibility to apply.

Provide your most current SF-50.

This SF-50 must be dated no later than the current year's General Adjustment.


Additional required documentation may be required such as transcripts, copy of your SF-50, will be indication in the vacancy announcement as "Required". Failure to provide the "Required" document will result in not being referred.


4.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instructions and failure to provide the required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement, failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 No, I did not follow the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙