Position Title
Supervisory Medical Administration Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTA-12943611-26-KT Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 27, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Medical Administrative Specialist, GS-0301-09/11 (Jacksonville, NC) position. We will evaluate your application and responses to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Time-In-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current, federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. (If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, this question does not apply to you.) For this vacancy, applicants must have held grade GS-7 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-09 grade level of this position; and a GS-9 or higher for at least a year to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level of this position. The grade must have been held in the Federal service but may have been in any occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
For a GS-09 grade level, your specialized experience MUST be at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent in order to meet this requirement. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: gathering information, identifying and analyzing issues, developing recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work operations in a program or program support setting; the incumbent's knowledge requires skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues of a procedural nature which are readily observable and subject to written guidelines. Work requires knowledge of service operations to manage recurring and ongoing training needs and to resolve individual performance measures. Carries out supervisory duties; plans the work to be accomplished by subordinates, assigns work based on priorities; evaluates work performance.

Do you have the required Specialized Experience equivalent to the next lower grade?
 Yes
 No


2.
For a GS-11 grade level, your specialized experience MUST be at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent in order to meet this requirement. You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: gathering information, identifying and analyzing issues, developing recommendations to resolve substantive problems of effectiveness and efficiency of work operations in a program or program support setting, application of qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques that frequently require modification to fit a wider range of variables; responsible for providing a high level of administrative support to the health administration service, upper management, and other clinical services. This position performs/carries out the following supervisory duties: plans the work to be accomplished by subordinates, sets and adjusts short-term priorities, and prepares schedules for the completion of work; has regular meetings with subordinates in different sites of care to plan for daily, weekly, and long term needs and to adjust schedules accordingly; assigns work to subordinates based on priorities, the selective consideration of the difficulty and requirements of assignments, and the capabilities of employees; sets priorities and assignments.

Do you have the required Specialized Experience equivalent to the next lower grade?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title Occupational Series and Grade (if a Federal position)Duties (be as detailed as possible)Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. 

DOCUMENT REMINDER - Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit your latest SF-50 (if you are a current facility/VA/Federal employee), DD-214 (member 4 copy that shows type of discharge), other Veterans Preference documents- such as SF-15 with disability letter attached, other documentation for proof of other special hiring authorities (such as VRA)- if applicable, transcripts/certifications/licenses to show additional related training and/or education, etc. It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙