Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-12886510-26-EH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
GS-9 Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-7 or higher for at least 52 weeks to be eligible for the GS-9 grade level. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 grade level or I am currently a GS-9 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


2.
GS-11 Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in grade requirements within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement. For this vacancy, applicants must have held GS-9 or higher for at least 52 weeks to be eligible for the GS-11 grade level. If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee, this question does not apply to you.

Do you meet the time-in-grade requirement as described above? Please select the response below which most accurately describes you.
 I have at least one-year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 grade level or I am currently a GS-11 or higher.
 This restriction does not apply to me (for example, have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade employee).
 This restriction applies to me, but I do not meet the requirements.


To qualify applicants must have one (1) year of Specialized experience, equivalent to at least the next lower grade level; experience that equipped the applicant with the particular competencies needed to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. If you are using education to qualify, please remember that a copy of your transcript must be submitted with your application; Or, applicants may qualify through combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience.


3.
GS-9 Minimum Qualifications: Please indicate if you meet the specialized experience and/or education that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Note: Your skills must be reflected in your resume and must include job title, salary, duties, month & year AND hours worked per week for each position held..
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized Experience includes: support the clinical contact center; develop and improve quality management procedures; utilize software systems to communicate and obtain/maintain administrative information; prepare and maintain spreadsheet/database programs to track and manage data; perform data analysis across interdisciplinary teams; maintain information resources management, install and distribute hardware, software and other activities required to enhance mission objectives; collaborate with counterparts to plan program and upgrade utilization. Note: Experience must be fully documented on your resume and must include job title, duties, month & year starting and year ending dates AND hours worked per week.
 I have successfully completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D., if related. This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. If you are qualifying on education, transcripts are required.
 I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and post high school education as described above that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position. You must have a combination of specialized experience and 1 full year of graduate level education. If you qualify by a combination, your experience must be detailed in your resume and transcripts are required.
 I do not have the experience and/or education to qualify at the GS-09 grade level.


4.
GS-11 Minimum Qualifications: Please indicate if you meet the specialized experience and/or education that you possess which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Note: Your skills must be reflected in your resume and must include job title, salary, duties, month & year AND hours worked per week for each position held..
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized Experience includes: provides business oversight for a variety of healthcare software programs; develop and improve quality management procedures to support patient care and ensure clinical oversight through utilization of data bases and registries; identify problem areas, provide assessments, and analyze variances; perform data analysis across interdisciplinary teams; maintain information resources management, install and distribute hardware, software and other activities required to enhance mission objectives; collaborate with counterparts to plan program and upgrade utilization; coordinate, implement, plan, and train staff in business and functional areas for various information technology packages.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. If you are qualifying on education, transcripts are required.
 I have an equivalent combination of specialized experience and post high school education as described above that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position. You must have a combination of specialized experience and education in excess of master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. If related. If you qualify by a combination, your experience must be detailed in your resume and transcripts are required.
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education to qualify at the GS-11 grade level.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


SF-50 Reminder - An SF-50 must be submitted with your application materials. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade Award 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙