Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CARZ-12922420-26-JAF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Four Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Select the appropriate answer based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the Federal service that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of this Administrative Officer position. Specialized experience includes: Coordinating and monitoring the functions of administrative services within an office; managing budget activities; assisting with contracting functions and managing procurement; assisting with human resources functions to include recruitment, position classification, performance, training, etc.; preparing letters, reports and presentations; retaining procurement records and reconciliations; making space utilization recommendations. NOTE: Applicants wishing to receive credit for such experience must indicate clearly the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment.
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.B. or J.D. in a related field that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I have equivalent combinations of successfully completed graduate level education (in excess of the first year or 18 semester hours) and specialized experience to meet total experience requirements. NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required.
 None of the above.


Veteran's Preference Documentation Reminder - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Read each question and select the single best answer.


The following statements pertain to the Administration and Management competency (Knowledge of planning, coordination and execution of business functions, resource allocation, and production.).


1.
Task: Oversees all aspects of human resources functions to include position descriptions, recruitment, employee/labor relations, training and other related activities.
Which approach best ensures coordinated and compliant HR support for the service?

 Concentrate primarily on recruitment efforts since they impact staffing numbers the most.
 Maintain updated PDs and org charts, coordinate recruitment with HR, process accurate personnel actions, and monitor mandatory training completion through structured tracking.
 Allow supervisors to maintain their own HR documentation without oversight.
 Delay HR actions until explicitly instructed by senior leadership.


2.
Task: Manages on-line certifications of contracts and labor mapping.
To maintain accuracy in labor mapping and contract certifications, what is the most effective method?

 Validate labor mapping only when significant staffing changes occur.
 Rely on supervisors to self update certifications without any review.
 Reconcile labor mapping against staffing and PD data regularly, establish a recurring certification cycle, and correct discrepancies promptly.
 Disable certifications temporarily to reduce administrative workload.


3.
Task: Establishes internal procedures regarding deadlines, progress reports and directives.
Which internal control most effectively prevents missed deadlines and administrative bottlenecks?

 Use verbal reminders as the main mechanism for tracking progress and directives.
 Develop a standardized suspense log with due dates, assigned owners, progress indicators, and escalation rules, updated routinely.
 Send reminders only when deadlines become critical.
 Allow staff to individually decide how to track their own deadlines.


4.
Task: Acts as the Contracting Officers Representative (COR) to manage procurement and contracting functions for the department.
What action best fulfills COR responsibilities?

 Verify contractor performance against contract requirements, document results, address issues with the Contracting Officer, and maintain complete records before certifying invoices.
 Focus on maintaining a positive relationship with the contractor and address performance only if major issues occur.
 Approve invoices early to avoid payment delays, with performance review later.
 Allow contractors to adjust deliverables without formal approval to expedite work.


The following statements pertain to the Communication competency (Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.).


5.
Task: Prepares, edits and archives all official correspondence requiring signature or approval.
What is the most critical communication step when preparing a memorandum for leadership signature?

 Prioritize speed and submit without proofreading to avoid delays.
 Ensure clarity, correct formatting, fact checking, proper routing for concurrence, and archive the signed final version in accordance with policy.
 Use informal tone to make the message feel more conversational.
 Include background emails as the primary content.


6.
Task: Provides advice to staff and supervisors regarding human resources procedures, laws, regulations and policies.
When a supervisor asks for policy interpretation, what is the most effective communication approach?

 Provide a concise, accurate summary of regulations, explain compliant options, cite sources, and document the guidance shared.
 Give a quick opinion based on past experience to speed decisions.
 Refer the supervisor to HR without providing context.
 Advise the supervisor to follow precedent without checking current rules.


7.
Task: Advises supervisors/managers on budgetary and finance issues.
How should the Administrative Officer communicate an unexpected budget shortfall?

 Tell supervisors only that funding is tight and provide details later.
 Present updated obligation/commitment data, describe impacts, and recommend options for reprioritization or reprogramming with timelines.
 Inform staff that purchases are paused without further explanation.
 Avoid discussing the situation until year-end reviews.


8.
Task: Provides advice to staff on human resources needs.
What is the best way to assist staff requesting help with onboarding and required training?

 Direct them to general onboarding resources without additional guidance.
 Clarify needs, outline onboarding steps, provide instructions for TMS assignments/compliance, set deadlines, and follow up.
 Advise them to contact Security independently for all steps.
 Tell the team training can be postponed until workload decreases.


The following statements pertain to the Decision Making competency (Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change.).


9.
Task: Executes and monitors balances of fund control points.
A fund control point is approaching exhaustion. What is the best decision?

 Reconcile obligations, evaluate planned purchases, adjust spending, and request reprogramming or additional authority as justified.
 Continue obligating funds and correct any issues later.
 Immediately halt all spending without analysis.
 Charge expenses to another unrelated fund control point.


10.
Task: Participates in reviewing needs, plans, and goals to develop budget data and justification for review and approval.
How should the Administrative Officer prepare budget justification?

 Rely on anecdotal evidence to keep the narrative simple.
 Align resource requests with mission needs, workload data, and performance goals, quantifying risk and justifying timing and amounts.
 Request maximum funds without detailed explanation.
 Copy last year’s justification and update dates only.


11.
Task: Develops space requests and coordinate movement.
A team requires additional space. What is the best decision?

 Temporarily relocate staff while completing paperwork later.
 Assess requirements, prepare a justified space request with layout needs, coordinate with Facilities, and plan moves to minimize disruption.
 Request any available area without details.
 Move current occupants without notice.


The following statements pertain to the Problem Solving competency (Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.).


12.
Task: Monitors performance, suspense actions and ensures issues are resolved.
A critical suspense is overdue. What is the most effective response?

 Identify the bottleneck, follow up with the responsible party, escalate if needed, and document closure.
 Wait for the team to catch up.
 Close the item to improve metrics even if incomplete.
 Send a reminder and hope for timely completion.


13.
Task: Manages budget formulation and execution for a changing budget of administrative expenses.
Mid-year budget reductions require adjustments. What is the best response?

 Freeze all spending immediately.
 Reevaluate priorities, reduce nonessential spending, rephase procurements, and communicate impacts while seeking necessary approvals.
 Delay making cuts until later to avoid disrupting operations.
 Charge expenses to other programs without authorization.


14.
Task: Gathers data and analyzes budget needs.
How should the Administrative Officer determine next quarter's budget needs?

 Ignore outstanding invoices when forecasting needs.
 Base estimates solely on the previous quarter’s spending.
 Compile actuals and commitments, analyze variances, forecast demand drivers, and validate with stakeholders.
 Allocate funds equally across all teams for simplicity.


15.
Task: Recommends actions to ensure economical and efficient use of equipment and other property.
Which recommendation best promotes equipment efficiency?

 Randomly rotate equipment to balance usage.
 Purchase more equipment for “just in case” scenarios.
 Review inventories, standardize models when feasible, retire or de access excess items, and maintain accurate records.
 Store obsolete equipment indefinitely.


The following statements pertain to the Attention to Detail competency (Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.).


16.
Task: Evaluates proposals for work.
What is the most detail oriented evaluation approach?

 Focus only on the cost information.
 Review the proposal summary but skip technical details.
 Assess compliance with SOW, specifications, deliverables, schedules, pricing, and past performance before recommending award.
 Approve familiar vendors automatically.


17.
Task: Prepares detailed procurement requests.
What should a high quality procurement request include?

 Full specifications, justification, funding source, quantities, delivery or installation details, and required approvals.
 A brief explanation of urgency without supporting documentation.
 Only a general description and total cost estimate.
 A verbal request passed to Purchasing.


18.
Task: Prepares accurate personnel documentation and personnel actions.
How can the Administrative Officer ensure personnel actions are accurate?

 Use standard templates without verifying the details.
 Submit actions first and correct errors later.
 Process actions without supervisory concurrence.
 Verify all position and personnel data, routing, approvals, and effective dates before submission.


19.
Task: Ensures performance ratings are submitted accordingly with regulatory guidelines.
What is the best practice to ensure on time and compliant ratings?

 Collect ratings after the deadline to reduce pressure.
 Publish schedules, track status, audit for accuracy, and escalate overdue ratings when necessary.
 Accept unsigned ratings if the deadline is near.
 Send reminders only one week before due dates.


20.
Task: Assists with the negotiation of business agreements and contracts.
Which action demonstrates strong attention to detail in negotiations?

 Rely on verbal assurances for noncritical terms.
 Examine all terms, identify risks, document changes, and ensure final agreements capture negotiated items accurately.
 Emphasize only one or two major terms and overlook less prominent requirements.
 Skip reviewing the final contract to expedite award.


The following statements pertain to the Information Management competency (Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems.).


21.
Task: Develops and keeps all position descriptions, and organizational charts current.
Which practice best maintains up to date PDs and org charts?

 Let each supervisor maintain their own versions.
 Update only when staff request changes.
 Apply version control, schedule periodic reviews, log updates, and store all documents in a centralized repository.
 Restrict access to PDs to prevent edits.


22.
Task: Coordinates and conducts audits and inspections.
What is the most effective method to prepare for an audit?

 Wait for auditors to request needed documents.
 Limit auditor access to reduce findings.
 Assemble records in advance, use checklists, brief process owners, and track corrective actions to closure.
 Provide documents in their current format, even if inconsistent.


23.
Task: Maintains procurement and contracting records.
What is the strongest information management practice?

 Keep only the newest version of each contracting document.
 Maintain a central, access controlled repository with complete correspondence, approvals, and performance documentation for each contract.
 Archive financial documents but discard technical materials.
 Store all contracting files in personal email for convenience.


24.
Task: Prepares necessary documents for the accession and de accession of property.
What is required for accurate property lifecycle documentation?

 Update property systems once per year.
 Move equipment without documentation to improve efficiency.
 Complete accession/de accession forms, capture identifiers, update property systems, and file all approvals.
 Record items with minimal information to reduce processing time.


The following statements pertain to the Reading competency (Understands and interprets written material, including technical material, rules, regulations, instructions, reports, charts, graphs, or tables; applies what is learned from written material to specific situations.).


25.
Task: Interprets administrative policies, developing local policies, defining administrative requirements, and/or providing advice.
What is the best way to implement a newly published national policy?

 Interpret requirements, align or develop local SOPs, identify operational impacts, and advise staff on how to comply.
 Direct staff to follow the policy based on past practice.
 Forward the policy to teams without analysis.
 Wait for external audits to reveal required changes.


26.
Task: Provides input into policies and action plans to ensure compliance with regulatory entities.
What is the most effective approach to ensuring compliance?

 Assume existing practices already meet all requirements.
 Compare draft policies to regulatory requirements, identify gaps, and propose specific corrective edits.
 Copy another facility’s policy without verifying relevance.
 Focus solely on internal preferences when reviewing content.


27.
Task: Prepares presentation materials related to financial, space, and equipment programs.
How should complex program information be presented to leadership?

 Present only historical data without decision related content.
 Use dense text to show thoroughness and detail.
 Provide raw spreadsheets without narrative explanations.
 Use clear visuals, summarize insights, link to goals and risks, and highlight recommended actions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙