Position Title
MWR Motor Vehicle Operator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12765501 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 14, 2025 to Jul 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Condition of Employment
1.
Do you possess a California Class B Driver's License with a passenger endorsement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience to qualify for the MWR Motor Vehicle Operator position. Failure to respond to all question will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have general vehicle operation experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have a Class B California drivers license with a passenger endorsement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please select the response that best describes your experience with operating a 32 or 36 passenger van.
 I have 5+ years of experience operating a 32 or 36 passenger van.
 I have 3-5 years of experience operating a 32 or 36 passenger van.
 I have 1-3 years of experience operating a 32 or 36 passenger van.
 I have less than 1 year of experience operating a 32 or 36 passenger van.
 I have no experience operating a 32 or 36 passenger van.


4.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience with preventative maintenance of vehicles.
 I have 5+ years of experience with preventative maintenance of vehicles.
 I have 3-5 years of experience with preventative maintenance of vehicles.
 I have 1-3 years of experience with preventative maintenance of vehicles.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with preventative maintenance of vehicles.
 I have no experience with preventative maintenance of vehicles.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙