Position Title
INTEGRATED PRIMARY PREVENTION OFFICER (PREV WF) - TITLE 5
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
GA-12989034-AR-26-195 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in completing the Occupational Questionnaire. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with the other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for this position. Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification. Particularly, your resume must support the response to the questions in the Occupational Questionnaire. Additional steps in the selections process are designed to verify your stated level of experience and capability. It is important to note that all of your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be rated ineligible.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Integrated Primary Prevention Officer (PREV WF) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience advising and providing counsel to employees regarding policies, procedures, and directives of management?


3a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


4.
Do you have experience selecting or recommending the selection of candidates for vacancies, promotions, details, and reassignments in consideration of skills and qualifications, mission requirements, and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) objectives?


4a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


5.
Do you have experience developing, modifying, and/or interpreting performance standards?


5a.
Please explain your experiences to the above question.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙