Position Title
Child & Youth Program Teen Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12941912 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Teen Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 A Child Development Associate (CDA) credential, Military School-Age (MSA) credential or equivalent AND 3 years of experience where the incumbent displays knowledge of a competency in developmentally appropriate programming.
 2-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development or related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics with an emphasis in Human Development or other degrees as appropriate AND 2 years of full-time experience working with children and/or youth.
 4 year degree in any of the above fields of study AND a minimum of 1 year of experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, or other related field of study that can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (human development emphasis), or other related degree as appropriate.
 I have a 2-year degree in ECE, Child Development, or related field of study that can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (emphasis in Human Development), or other related degree as appropriate.
 I have a Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities (e.g., teen clubs, trips and excursions, specialty camps, overnight lock-ins) that support teens' social and emotional growth and help them build character, leadership skills, and self-esteem?
 I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in planning and implementing recreational-based teen activities.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in record management, inventory control, or purchasing as it pertains to a child and youth development program?
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in record management, inventory control, or purchasing.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, such as visiting local housing areas to interact with teens and families, supporting the development of youth sponsorship programs, and assisting youth in acclimating to their new communities?
 I have 3+ years of experience in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in coordinating outreach efforts to publicize program services and events.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 5+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 3 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 3 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


7.
What size is the Youth Sports Program you have experience in managing?
 I have experience managing a large Youth Sports Program (200 youth and above).
 I have experience managing a medium Youth Sports Program (100 to 199 youth).
 I have experience managing a small Youth Sports Program (up to 99 youth).
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙