Position Title
IT Specialist (APPSW) - RECENT GRADUATES
Agency
National Transportation Safety Board
Announcement Number
CIO-13013873-26-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
In order to qualify for the GS-07 grade level, please select one of the choices below
 I have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized Experience is experience providing timely IT customer service; and utilizing Microsoft development tools (e.g. Power Platform, Azure, SharePoint).
 Successful completion of one full year of graduate education to a master's degree in a related field (e.g. computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management).
 I qualify based on Superior Academic Achievement. 1) A grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study OR 2) A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study OR 3) Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college OR 4) Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies.
 A combination of related graduate-level education and specialized experience.
 I do not possess the specialized experience nor the education or a combination of both.


2.
In order to qualify for the GS-9 grade level, please select one of the choices below.
 I have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the Federal Service. Specialized Experience is experience providing IT customer service and resolving application problems; and supporting configuration, maintenance, and administration of applications using Microsoft development tools; and following established procedures to resolve basic system issues.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in a related field (e.g. computer science, engineering, information science, information systems management, mathematics, operations research, statistics, or technology management); OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of Education and Experience.
 I do not possess the specialized experience nor the education or a combination of both.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙