Position Title
BUDGET ANALYST-Title 5 OBO
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12899426-T5-26-140 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current Title 5 employee of the Wisconsin National Guard? 

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.



1.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience, education, or training of finance budget competencies that provided knowledge of financial principles and procedures?


3a.
Please explain your experience.


4.
Do you have experience of the basic principles and concepts of the National Guard financial budget business program requirements?


4a.
Please explain your experience.


5.
Do you have experience and training that demonstrates the abilities to follow directions, to read, retain, and understand a variety of instructions and regulations?


5a.
Please explain your experience.


6.
Do you have experience and training that demonstrates the abilities to follow directions, to read, retain, and understand a variety of policies and procedures?


6a.
Please explain your experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙