Position Title
Director, National Center for Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD)
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-RF-26-13000082 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee and occupy a position equivalent to the GS-14 grade level or higher?
 
To verify your eligibility as a current Federal civilian employee in a position equivalent to the GS-14 grade level or higher, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action Form reflecting your status.

 Yes
 No


2.
Political Appointee - In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5).

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).

Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).

A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a PHS Commissioned Corps Officer?

Public Health Service (PHS) Commissioned Corps Officer (this includes active duty officers and inactive reserve officers in the Corps). NOTE: You must submit a copy of your current personnel orders. Please remove you SSN from document before submission.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Director, Office of Public Health Data, Surveillance, and Technology (OPHDST), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the Basic Qualification Requirements for Director, National Center for Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD), RF-0601-00.
 I have successfully completed a Bachelor’s or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position.
 I do not possess the education as listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education and meets the agency specific qualification requirements for Director, National Center for Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (NCBDDD), RF-0601-00.
 I possess a research doctoral degree in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position.
 I possess an M.D., D.V.M, D.O, or equivalent.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


3.
Describe your expertise in leading and advancing scientific research, surveillance, prevention, and public health programs related to birth defects, developmental disabilities, blood disorders, disability and health, maternal and child health, or related population health issues.


4.
Describe your ability to provide executive leadership, strategic direction, and operational oversight of large, multidisciplinary public health organizations responsible for scientific programs, workforce management, resource stewardship, stakeholder engagement, and organizational performance.


5.
Describe your experience to deal effectively with high-level government officials, foreign ministries of health, scientific and academic communities, national and international medical and health-related organizations, community and non-governmental groups, U.S. and global media, and the international public at large.


6.
Describe your ability to lead people toward meeting the organization's vision, mission, and goals. Inherent to this qualification is the ability to provide a workplace that fosters the development of others, facilitates cooperation and teamwork, and supports constructive resolution of conflicts.


7.
Describe your ability to meet organizational goals and customer expectations. Inherent to this qualification is the ability to make decisions that produce high-quality results by applying technical knowledge, analyzing problems, and calculating risks.


8.
Describe your ability to manage human, financial, and information resources strategically.


9.
Are you currently serving or have you served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?  Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


10.
To the extent applicable, I understand that the responses provided in this questionnaire must be fully supported by my resume and any required supporting documentation. I further understand that my resume must not exceed two pages and provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge, skill, and abilities as required in the vacancy announcement, including evidence of the Technical Qualifications (TQs) listed in the announcement. I understand and that my failure to satisfy these requirements may result in my being rated "Ineligible" or "Not Qualified" for this position. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


11.
I declare under penalty of perjury, that all statements contained in this application and any accompanying documents are true and correct, with full knowledge that all statements made in this application are subject to investigation and that any false or dishonest answer to any question may be grounds for disqualification and loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙