Position Title
Quality Assurance Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
331-26-WSJ-13027507-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Quality Assurance Specialist GS-1910-09 position with Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
To qualify at the GS-09, you must have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-7 grade level or higher. Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response)
 Yes, I have at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-7 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 No, I do not have at least one year (52 weeks) time in grade as a GS-7 grade level or higher.


2.
Thank you for your interest in the Quality Assurance Specialist position with the Department Veterans Benefits Administration. Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position. Your responses are subject to verification.

Informational Note: All applicants must meet the Basic Requirement and Specialized experience as stated below, to qualify. Please make sure documents (i.e. resume, transcripts) include all your qualifying experience and education.

INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATION REQUIREMENTS (IOR): To qualify for the Quality Assurance Specialist position, candidates must meet the following IOR requirements:

Education
Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.

or

Experience

Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include:

Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements.
Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans.
Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system.
Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance.
Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action.
Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods.
Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities.
Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals.
Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections.
 I have undergraduate and graduate education: Major study -- quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position.
 I have experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas.
 My education and/or experience is not described above. Therefore, I do not qualify for this position.


3.
To qualify for the GS-09, applicants must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience is defined as work that involves:
(1) Conducting focused evaluations and reviews to determine quality and accuracy.
(2) Developing training strategies and materials to address deficiencies and/or conducting training activities.
(3) Providing quality review services, feedback and guidance to staff in order to correct unsatisfactory performance.
(4) Analyzing performance deficiencies and quality trends to identify knowledge skills/gaps.
(5) Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system.
(6) Typing, maintain training records, create and review training documents for dissemination.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-07 or higher in the Federal Service.
 My education and/or experience are not described in statements A, B, or C above. Therefore, I am not eligible to be considered for this GS-09 position.
 I have been awarded a master's or equivalent graduate degree required to qualify at the GS-09 level with: a master's degree in quality assurance, statistics, mathematics, production management, industrial management, computer science, engineering, engineering technology, physical sciences, textiles, or other fields related to the position or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have less than the one year of specialized experience as described in response "A" above, and I have less than the full amount of graduate education as described in response "B" above. However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. Only graduate level education in excess of that required for the next lower grade may be used in combination with experience to qualify for a GS-09 grade level position. NOTE: Your application must include an official copy of graduate level transcripts that demonstrate this information if this response is selected.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙