Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IO-26-CO-12935853 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Anaheim, CA
 B. Long Beach, CA
 C. Los Angeles, CA
 D. Aurora, CO
 E. Denver, CO
 F. Washington, DC
 G. Orlando, FL
 H. Saint Petersburg, FL
 I. Tampa, FL
 J. Atlanta, GA
 K. Hines, IL
 L. Detroit, MI
 M. Eatontown, NJ
 N. Albany County, NY
 O. Cleveland, OH
 P. Philadelphia, PA
 Q. Pittsburgh, PA
 R. Davidson, TN
 S. Murfreesboro, TN
 T. Nashville, TN
 U. Arlington, TX
 V. Austin, TX
 W. Houston, TX
 X. San Antonio, TX
 Y. Salt Lake City, UT
 Z. Shepherdstown, WV



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
Please indicate the OIT location(s) you are interested in working at. If you choose a location outside of your local commuting area, you will be responsible for relocation expenses.
 A. Albany, NY
 B. Anaheim, CA
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Aurora, CO
 E. Austin, TX
 F. Cleveland, OH
 G. Davidson, TN
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Detroit, MI
 J. Eatontown, NJ
 K. Hines, IL
 L. Houston, TX
 M. Long Beach, CA
 N. Los Angeles, CA
 O. Murfreesboro, TN
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Orlando, FL
 R. Philadelphia, PA
 S. Pittsburgh, PA
 T. Saint Petersburg, FL
 U. Salt Lake City, UT
 V. San Antonio, TX
 W. Tampa, FL
 X. Washington, DC
 Y. Shepherdstown, WV


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


INSTRUCTIONS: Basic Individual Occupational Requirement: Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for a Supervisory IT Specialist, GS-2210-15.

For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled.
- Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
- Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
- Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
- Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

NOTE: The basic occupational requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above.


INSTRUCTIONS: Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience Leading enterprise-level IT programs and developing strategic plans aligned with organizational goals. Manage large-scale IT projects involving cloud migration, cybersecurity, and infrastructure modernization at the enterprise level, advises senior leadership on IT governance, emerging technologies, and risk management strategies, and oversees compliance with federal IT policies, standards, and security requirements.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 as described above.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify.
 No, I do NOT certify.


Assessment 2
This test evaluates situational judgment and job knowledge. Each question includes potential responses and reflects foundational experience with leadership-level engagement, large organizational support, financial oversight, and potential for advancement.

INSTRUCTIONS: Read each question carefully and choose the most appropriate response based on the scenario described in each question. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Instructions for Candidates
Read each question carefully.
Situational Judgment (Q1-Q10): Multiple-select. Choose all actions you take. Scoring is weighted: Best response (7 pts) + Acceptable response(s) (3 pts) = 10 pts max per item. You won't be penalized for selecting extra options-but selecting poor choices can disqualify the best score for that item.
Technical Knowledge (Q11-Q20): Single best answer. 5 pts each.
Use accepted federal IT practices, enterprise architecture and cybersecurity standards, supervisory norms, and program/portfolio management logic.
Do not discuss test content.


1.
Two senior leaders provide conflicting priorities with overlapping deadlines. What do you do?
 A. Execute the directive you personally prefer; inform the other leader later.
 B. Convene both leaders quickly to clarify mission priorities, constraints, and required outcomes; document agreed alignment and update plans.
 C. Delay both actions until a written memo arrives.
 D. Split the team without changing scope or resourcing.


2.
A subordinate supervisor escalates a formal grievance. How do you respond?
 A. Hear the grievance as second level supervisor; apply EEO policies; provide process guidance; document actions.
 B. Refer them back to their team without review.
 C. Issue immediate reprimands before hearing details.
 D. Assign a neutral fact finding lead; schedule timelines and ensure retaliation free participation.


3.
A vendor proposes a faster deployment that doesn't fully meet security architecture standards. Your approach?
 A. Accept the proposal to meet schedule.
 B. Require the vendor to meet the standard; evaluate architecture/design adequacy against requirements; document risks and mitigation before approval.
 C. Implement compensating controls without changing design.
 D. Defer indefinitely.


4.
An enterprise project's benefits are not materializing. What's your next step?
 A. Continue unchanged; benefits often catch up.
 B. Initiate a benefits realization review (updated KPI baseline, traceability to business case), adjust scope/resources, and present options in an Executive Decision Brief.
 C. Cancel immediately without analysis.
 D. Blame the field sites publicly.


5.
You drafted a new technical standard; several stakeholders resist adoption. Best response?
 Publish unilaterally to establish authority.
 Run a structured review: map to laws/regulations, capture stakeholder feedback, seek consensus; plan phased adoption and change management.
 Limit the policy to a small pilot only.
 Wait for external regulators to decide.


6.
A pattern of misconfiguration is found across multiple sites. What actions do you take?
 A. Issue a one time fix and move on.
 B. Establish or update secure configuration baselines, enforce change control, and require remediation plans with measurable timelines, report status to leadership.
 C. Let each site choose its own settings.
 D. Outsource entirely to contractors with minimal oversight.


7.
A large acquisition needs your recommendation. What must be assured?
 A. Lowest price wins.
 B. Technical soundness linked to mission outcomes, risk/issue management, and alignment with capital planning/investment control processes.
 C. Speed of deployment outweighs all.
 D. Field preference alone determines selection.


8.
Your unit's outcomes slipped last quarter. What do you do?
 A. Note issues at annual review.
 B. Set revised performance standards and interim checkpoints; provide coaching/training; remove obstacles; recognize improvement; document.
 C. Replace the team immediately.
 D. Post metrics publicly and let peer pressure solve it.


9.
A mission-critical service lacks clear availability and recovery requirements. Next steps?
 A. Ignore until an outage occurs.
 B. Define availability targets, fail over/alternate site, backup/restoration and supportability requirements; integrate into system baseline and test plans.
 C. Capture only backups.
 D. Assign responsibility elsewhere without oversight.


10.
You must brief executives on a pilot that missed KPIs. How do you structure it?
 A. A. Minimize issues to protect the team.
 B. Provide a succinct problem statement, root cause analysis, options with impacts/costs/risks, recommended path, and decision requests; include stakeholder input.
 C. Present technical details only.
 D. Send a long email instead of briefing.


11.
A cornerstone of secure configuration management in an enterprise is:
 A. Site specific ad hoc changes.
 B. Approved baselines with enforced change control and auditability.
 C. Local logs disabled to reduce overhead.
 D. No documentation for agility.


12.
Translating proposed capabilities into technical requirements means:
 A. Adopting vendor marketing language.
 B. Creating traceable, testable requirements aligned to mission needs and constraints.
 C. Focusing solely on budget.
 D. Deferring to the statement of work.


13.
When adding a new interface between systems, you must document:
 A. Social media announcements.
 B. The impact on current/target environments, including security posture and dependencies.
 C. Only local SOPs.
 D. A press release.


14.
Defining appropriate availability for critical systems includes ensuring:
 A. Occasional backups only.
 B. Fail over/alternate site, backup/restoration, and supportability requirements are identified and tested.
 C. Manual recovery is assumed sufficient.
 D. Defer DR to post incident.


15.
A practical step to verify benefits is to:
 A. Compare outcomes to the approved business case KPIs and re baseline if assumptions changed.
 B. Ask vendor for testimonials.
 C. Measure schedule variance only.
 D. Rely on subjective satisfaction.


16.
Primary KPI for WAN acceleration success is:
 A. UI responsiveness only.
 B. End to end throughput/latency improvements against baseline under realistic traffic profiles.
 C. Vendor demo results.
 D. Number of new devices.


17.
A good enterprise routing standard ensures:
 A. Each site decides protocols independently.
 B. Consistent routing policies, change control, and validate failover behaviors across the enterprise.
 C. No documentation.
 D. GUI standardization only.


18.
Most actionable output is:
 A. Summary slide deck.
 B. Prioritized findings with remediation steps, ownership, and timelines.
 C. Marketing collateral.
 D. Device serial numbers.


19.
Centralized awareness enables:
 A. Over provisioning only.
 B. Trend analysis, optimization, and targeted upgrades tied to demand.
 C. Decreasing visibility.
 D. Manual billing.


20.
A sound pilot governance includes:
 A. No entry/exit criteria.
 B. Defined success metrics, data collection plan, risk log, and executive decision gate.
 C. Fast launch only.
 D. Vendor run tests solely.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙