Position Title
Auditor (Pathways Recent Graduate)
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26DE13065963KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


4.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


5.
What is the name of the college or university you are enrolled in, currently attend, or have graduated from? (Please provide the institution name as it appears on your transcript.)


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.

Select the statement that best describes how you meet the basic education requirement for the GS-0511 Auditor series.

You must submit transcripts or other supporting documentation verifying that you meet the basic educational requirement for the GS-0511 Auditor series. Failure to provide sufficient documentation may result in removal from further consideration.

 I possess a degree in accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. I understand that I must submit transcripts to support my claim.
 I possess a combination of education and experience of at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background includes one or more of the following: - At least 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; or - A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or - Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not possess any of the education or combination of education and experience requirements described above.


2.

Select the statement that best describes how you meet the minimum qualification requirements for the GS-09 Auditor position.

 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of an Auditor, GS-0511-09. My experience is fully supported and articulated in my resume. Specialized experience includes: knowledge of or experience supporting audits, reviews, inspections, evaluations, financial analysis, compliance reviews, or other analytical assignments; and experience gathering, organizing, reviewing, or analyzing data, reports, records, or other information to identify issues, trends, or areas requiring further review; and experience preparing written summaries, reports, recommendations, or other documentation to communicate analytical findings or support organizational objectives; and knowledge of or experience applying laws, regulations, policies, procedures, professional standards, or other guidance in completing assignments or projects; and experience communicating with team members, management officials, or stakeholders to gather information, discuss findings, or support project objectives.
 I meet the qualification requirements based on 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree. I understand that I must submit transcripts to support my claim.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience which is equivalent to the work of the position and equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service. This education and experience meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet any of the minimum qualification requirements described above.


3.
Your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references submitted. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
Understand this warning, and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes. I verify that my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if submitted supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙