Position Title
First or Second Assistant Engineer Towboat
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13044326- DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 21, 2026 to Sep 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a First Assistant Engineer, Towboat (DR) or Second Assistant Engineer position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform First Assistant Engineer, Towboat (DR) or Second Assistant Engineer duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex First Assistant Engineer, Towboat (DR) duties. I am skilled in exercising shift watch responsibility for handling controls; participating in the routine repairs of all engine room machinery and equipment including the main propelling engines, pumping engines, auxiliary pumps, machinery on the vessel and attendant plant and electric/electronic systems; maintaining continuous operating efficiency to prevent damage to machinery; conducting regular and periodic inspections by visual and auditory means of all machinery to determine the operating condition and the need for maintenance and repairs; making minor adjustments and routine repairs on own initiative and reporting defects to higher level authority; and assisting in making non-routine operating repairs and major repairs. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of First Assistant Engineer, Towboat (DR) duties. I am skilled in standing regular watch responsible for the proper and continuous operation of machinery and service facilities (i.e., main auxiliary engines, generator, pumps, etc.); making regular and/or special inspection of all operating machinery to ensure proper function by observing temperature gauges, pressure indicators, oil levels, etc., and reactions of machinery; maintaining operations logs; and operating all equipment in engine room as required. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common First Assistant Engineer, Towboat (DR) duties. I can conduct periodic inspections of machinery and observes gauges, checking oil levels, motor generators, gearbox, generator temperatures, fuel levels, etc.; checking and controlling operation of heating, refrigerating, plumbing, and water supply systems for the dredge; investigating and determining the cause and remedial action necessary when noting unusual or unnatural condition in machinery operations; advising Chief Engineer and taking corrective action in accordance with his instructions; and assisting in making repairs to engine room and auxiliary machinery. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple First Assistant Engineer, Towboat (DR) duties or I have received training on assisting in making non-routine operating repairs and major repairs; operating all equipment in engine room as required; and maintaining/updating operating logs.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙