Position Title
Business Activities Manager Bangor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12764222 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2025 to Sep 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of Business Activities Manager with Command, Navy Region Northwest.  Please answer the following questions to determine if you are eligible for this position.  

All responses must be reflected in your resume, and any transcripts and/or certifications must be uploaded with application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess a four-year degree in business, hospitality, or a related field and have at least one-year supervisory experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please share your level of experience in developing directives, instructions, and procedures regarding the administration of activities and utilization for facility resources.
 I have at least 5 years of experience in this competency.
 I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 I have less than one year of experience in this competency.
 I have no practical experience in this competency.


3.
Please share your level of experience reviewing expenditures for facility operations and maintenance activities, estimating projected costs and assisting in developing the overall financial plan for facilities.
 I have at least 5 years of experience in this competency.
 I have 3-5 years of experience in this competency.
 I have 1-3 years of experience in this competency.
 I have less than one year of experience in this competency.
 I have no practical experience in this competency.


4.
Please share your level of experience managing multiple facilities in the food, beverage and entertainment.  MWR experience is desired.
 I have 3-5 years of experience managing 2 or more facilities in a DoD organization.
 I have 3-5 years of experience managing 2 or more facilities in a civilian organization.
 I have 1-3 of experience managing 2 or more facilities in a DoD organization.
 I have 1-3 years of experience managing 2 or more facilities in a civilian organization.
 I have up to 3 years of experience managing and FBE facility, but not multiple facilities.
 I have no practical experience in this competency.


5.
This role includes supervisory responsibilities for multiple sites.  Applies Non-Appropriated fund rules and regulation to the supervision of NAF personnel.  Please share your level of experience supervising employees.
 I have at least 5 years of experience supervising employees in multiple locations.
 I have 3-5 years of experience supervising employees in multiple locations.
 I have 1-3 years of experience supervising employees in multiple locations.
 I have less than 1 year of experience supervising employees in multiple locations.
 I have no experience supervising employees.


6.
This position is responsible for the overall administration, maintenance and daily operation of assigned facilities. This may include, but is not limited to restaurant, bar, recreation and retail activities, pub, mobile services, etc.   Please share an example of your work history where you exhibited proficiency in this competency.


6a.
Please be as detailed as possible. 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙