Position Title
Supervisory Social Science Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12943685-26-JH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Social Science Program Specialist position with the Office of Suicide Prevention (OSP), Veterans Crisis Line (VCL). Applicants must meet the requirements for this position by the closing date of the announcement. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.
 
Current Federal Employees: You must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50). Additionally, you must submit a SF-50 to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted). If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide additional SF-50's that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include: 
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
 
Transcript Reminder: A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Transcripts must depict the name of the college to determine accreditation, and your name must also be displayed on the transcripts. If qualifying based on a degree, or for positions requiring a degree, the transcript must show the date the degree was conferred. If selected, you must provide official transcripts. Transcripts should state degree conferred and have a date. Copies of official transcripts are accepted and are the best way to ensure your education is interpreted correctly in accordance with OPM qualification standards. Unofficial transcripts are accepted if they contain all the required information.



1.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT (IOR): An IOR is a basic requirement that must be met in order to qualify for entry into this job series, and it is something that can't be waived. The education must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. To qualify for the Social Science occupational series, applicants MUST possess one of the following:
Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. OR
Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. OR
Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

NOTE: Examples of related behavioral or social science degrees are as follows: psychology, social work, sociology, family counseling, mental health counseling, nursing, ministry, and criminal justice.
 Yes, I have a degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position (COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 Yes, I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field (COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 Yes, I have four years of experience that demonstrate I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (COPY OF TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED).
 No, I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR) for this position.


In addition to the above Individual Occupational Requirements (IOR), applicants must meet the Specialized Experience.

This section includes questions about the Specialized Experience for this vacancy. Carefully read the following descriptions below, select ONE statement below that best describes your experience and qualifications for the Supervisory Social Science Program Specialist GS-0101-12. Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. To be creditable, Specialized Experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Read all responses before making your selection. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. From the responses below, select the response that best describes how you met the requirements for this position. Note: Specialized Experience MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration.


2.
Specialized Experience: At least one (1) full year of specialized experience that is equivalent to the next lower grade level GS-11. In order to meet the minimum qualifications for this position, you must meet at the following specialized experience requirements:
Designing, evaluating, and developing employee development programs, training plans, course methods, materials and aids.
Coordinating and assigning projects for the development and implementation of training courses or course materials.
Leading or supervising a fast-paced, diverse team by providing administrative and technical supervision necessary for accomplishing the work of the unit.
 I possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-11. Designing, evaluating, and developing employee development programs, training plans, course methods, materials and aids; Coordinating and assigning projects for the development and implementation of training courses or course materials; Leading or supervising a fast-paced, diverse team by providing administrative and technical supervision necessary for accomplishing the work of the unit.
 I do not possess the specialized experience for this position.


SF-50 REMINDER: You must provide your most recent SF-50 form (dated 1/1/2023 or later) and your latest Within Grade Increase (WGI) or Promotion SF-50. The most recent SF-50 allows us to verify your current status, appointment, agency and/or duty station to confirm your Eligibility to Apply for this position while the latest WGI or Promotion SF-50 allows us to verify your Time in Grade (TIG) for this position. Failure to provide both SF-50s may result in automatic ineligibility for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙