Position Title
Powered Support Systems Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Army Reserve Command
Announcement Number
SDDE-26-13074412-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 26, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Condition of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires membership in the US Army Reserve (USAR). If you are not willing or are ineligible to join the USAR, please do not apply to this announcement. If selected, you MUST be or become a member of the Selected USAR. Generally, retired military service members are not eligible for Selected USAR membership. Are you currently a member of the Selected USAR and are willing to maintain membership or are you willing to obtain and maintain membership in the Selected USAR?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Support Systems Mechanic position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this Occupational Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Read the following statements (A-E) and select the one response that best describes your ability to perform the duties of a Power Support Systems Mechanic.
 I have independently performed all of the following duties, and I am consulted by other employees or in difficult situations regarding performance of the following duties: troubleshooting, overhauling, rebuilding, and repairing a variety of power support systems and equipment on various heavy equipment systems; diagnosing, troubleshooting, and repairing electrical and transistorized systems in AC and DC applications; testing and repairing gun fire simulators; and servicing and repairing air conditioning and refrigeration units including control circuits.
 I have performed the majority of the following duties with minimal supervision: troubleshooting, rebuilding, and repairing a variety of power support systems and equipment; troubleshooting and repairing electrical and transistorized systems and equipment; and servicing and repairing air conditioning and refrigeration units including control circuits.
 I have performed the majority of the following duties under normal supervision: troubleshooting and repairing a variety of power support systems and equipment; troubleshooting and repairing electrical systems and equipment; and servicing and repairing air conditioning and refrigeration units.
 I have assisted a higher graded worker or performed the following duties under very close supervision: repairing a variety of power support systems and equipment; repairing electrical systems and equipment; and servicing air conditioning or refrigeration units.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙