Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12902763-26-AL Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Paralegal Specialist position with the Federal government. Note: Your application materials must support your responses to the following questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Paralegal Specialist, GS-0950 work at the GS-09 grade level.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12-months) of specialized work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) Drafting judicial papers or responses to motions, such as, subpoenas, change of venue, or motions to terminate; 2) Evaluating judicial orders, decisions, bond proceedings, or legal documents for case law compliance; 3) Entering data into case management system according to proper data entry requirements; AND 4) Obtaining factual information or research through face-to-face meetings with legal support personnel. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience)
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree OR two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR I have an LL.B. or J.D., in a directly related field. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I possess a combination of the above described graduate education and specialized experience such that they total 100% of the stated minimum qualifications for the GS-09 level. Only graduate education beyond the first year (18 semester hours) may be used when combining education and experience for this option. (Must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-9 level.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Paralegal Specialist, GS-0950 work at the GS-11 grade level.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12-months) of specialized work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) Writing analyses and/or legal memoranda regarding the results of research; 2) Performing legal research into laws, legislative history, precedent setting cases, decisions or opinions; 3) Creating user defined reports relating to ongoing legal matters; AND 4) Advising or explaining factual information or research to general public through face-to-face meetings. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience)
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR I have an LL.M. in a directly related field. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I possess a combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed in A above; then determine your education as a percentage of the education listed in B above; then add the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate education in excess of two full years (36 hours) may be used to qualify. (Must submit transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements. Therefore, I am not qualified for this position at the GS-11 level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙