Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Community Recreation)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12873271 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Recreation Specialist (Liberty) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
What best describes your education and or experience

 I have a Bachelors degree or higher and one (1) full year of graduate level education in General Recreation or in a related field. (Transcribes will be required at time of interview)
 I have one (1) or more year(s) of specialized experience with managing and administering a comprehensive and diverse recreation program and various recreation facilities.
 I have none of the above.


2.
This position requires an irregular tour of duty, including evenings, weekend and holidays.

 Yes I am available to work the above requirements
 No I am not available to work the above requirements


3.
Experience with the military Enlisted Service Member Program (to include some or all of the following: knowledge of policy and guidance; program planning geared toward a target population of 18-25 year old)
 3+ years of experience with the military Enlisted Service Member Program
 2 to 3 years of documented experience with the military Enlisted Service Member Program.
 1 – 2 years of documented experience with the military Enlisted Service Member Program
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience with the military Enlisted Service Member Program.


4.
Experience with retail operations (To include some or all of the following: Operating a Point of Sale system, patron tracking, ordering product, monitoring of sales, cash handling, customer service, providing information, inventory, making reservations and equipment issue).
 5+ years of documented experience in a retail operations within the DoD
 5+ years of documented experience in a retail operations within the civilian sector
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in retail operations within the DoD
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in retail operations within the civilian sector
 3 to 4 years of documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector
 2 to 4 years of documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector
 1 to 2 years of documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience in retail operations within either DoD or the civilian sector


5.
Experience with leading recreational programming (To include some or all of the following: Coordinating and promoting an annual calendar of trips, classes, programs for a diverse audience, etc.)
 5+ years of documented experience in promoting a variety of recreational programs
 4 to 5 years of documented experience in promoting a variety of recreational programs
 3 to 4 years of documented experience in promoting a variety of recreational programs
 2 to 3 years of documented experience in promoting a variety of recreational programs
 1 to 2 years of documented experience in promoting a variety of recreational programs
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience in promoting a variety of recreational programs.


6.
Experience driving either a 12 or 15 passenger vehicle
 Yes I have a chauffeur's license
 No I do not have a chauffeur's license but would be willing to get one
 No I do not have a chauffeur's license


7.
Fundamental knowledge of business program management, and financial management to include budgeting, cost and profitability analysis, internal controls, inspection, ticket and asset inventory controls, procurement, vendor negotiation and program management.
 Yes I have documented experience of all the above financial management requirements for this position
 Yes I have documented experience of some of the above financial management requirements for this position
 No I do not have any documented experience of any of the above financial management requirements for this position


8.
Proficiency with computers and software common to the workplace (To include some or all of the following:
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Excel
 C. Power Point
 D. Access
 E. Rec Trac
 F. Payroll (KRONOS)
 G. Database Management
 H. I do not have any experience/knowledge in any of the response options


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙