Position Title
Warehouse Supervisor - Unaccompanied Housing
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26502 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 31, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
Completion of this questionnaire is required, it is a condition of employment.


1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?

The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


3.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Warehouse Supervisor position at Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Unaccompanied Housing. Completion of this questionnaire is a requirement for your application package, and your answers must be supported by your resume and/or additional documentation as required by the announcement. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
The incumbent of this position must work directly with CNIC-HQ, Regional, and Command staff, department heads, lodging employees, contractors, vendors and representatives of private industry. Choose the statement that best describes your ability to communicate effectively in English, both orally and in writing in a professional capacity, which includes conversing with all levels of the organization (i.e. peers, subordinates, mid and high-level management, etc.).
 I have at least 2 years of professional experience communicating information relating to duties and responsibilities assigned to me.
 I have at 2 to 4 years of professional experience communicating information relating to duties and responsibilities assigned to me.
 I have more than 5 years of professional experience communicating information relating to duties and responsibilities assigned to me.
 None of these statements apply to me.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience in using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point, as well as more targeted programs pertaining to inventory, stock control, purchase orders and/or property management systems.
 I have 1 to 2 years of fulltime work experience using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point.
 I have 1 to 2 years of fulltime work experience using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point, as well as more targeted programs pertaining to inventory, stock control, purchase orders, and/or property management systems.
 I have 3 or more years of fulltime work experience using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point.
 I have 3 or more years of fulltime work experience using basic computer software such as Microsoft Word, Excel, and Power Point, as well as more targeted programs pertaining to inventory, stock control, purchase orders, and/or property management systems.
 I have no experience with basic computer software, but I am familiar with email programs such as Outlook or Gmail.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your working knowledge of the daily operation of a hotel, which includes but is not limited to Hotel Management Procedures, Front Desk Operations, Housekeeping, and Maintenance Duties, etc.
 I have 1 to 2 years of fulltime work experience in the daily operation of a hotel.
 3 to 4 years of fulltime work experience in the daily operation of a hotel.
 More that 5 years of fulltime work experience in the daily operation of a hotel.
 I do not have working knowledge of daily hotel operations, but I have experience in the hospitality industry.


4.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience and/or education as it relates to this position. (MUST attach proof of education)
 At least 2 years of education above the high school level in a related field AND at least 1 year of fulltime work experience related to inventory management. (MUST attach proof of education)
 At least 2 years of fulltime work experience related to inventory management. (Documented work experience must be reflected on resume)
 None of these statements apply to me.


5.
The incumbent is responsible for directing operations of several warehouse and storage facilities which requires expertise in many areas. Select from the list of skills and knowledge below that which you are proficient in. Ensure that these abilities are reflected in the work experience you have listed on the resume submitted for this position.
 A. Purchasing procedures
 B. Procurement
 C. Computerized inventory/record keeping
 D. Receiving deliveries
 E. Investigate inventory discrepancies
 F. Operate a forklift
 G. Prepare annual budget
 H. Supervise 2 or more people
 I. Prepare reports and analysis for higher authority
 J. None of these apply to me


6.
Choose the statement that best describes your current or previous work experience in a related position.
 I have previously held a supervisory position related to inventory management in a lodging/hotel operation for at least 1 year.
 I am currently in a supervisory position related to inventory management in a lodging/hotel operation.
 I currently am/formerly was in a supervisory position related to inventory management at a DoD facility for at least 1 year.
 I have supervisory experience related to inventory management in a private sector operation, for at least 1 year.
 None of these statements apply to me.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
This positions has oversight for a 24-hour operation and the incumbent must be available and accessible at various hours including evenings, weekends, and holidays as necessary to meet mission requirements. Incumbent is also required to have a valid driver's license. Are you able to meet these requirements?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙