Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12877220-AR-26-370 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently a Traditional military member (Drill, ADSW, etc.) of the Montana Army National Guard, a BARGAINING UNIT Indefinite (Tenure 3) or an NTE (Tenure 0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee or a NON-BARGAINING UNIT (of any Tenure – 1/2/3/0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee; T5 applicants must be eligible for MT Army National Guard military membership and willing to join, if not currently a military member. (Area II)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.

GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS
Must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below:

Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-11. Must have experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Such experience is typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E7 - E9; WO1 - CW5; O1 - O4)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/reinstatement?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙