Position Title
PRODUCTION CONTROLLER (AIRCRAFT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12855757-AF-26-013 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 18, 2025 to Jan 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a current AGR/Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E6?
 Yes. I am an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E6.
 No. I am not an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Air National Guard.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training which indicates the candidate can reason in quantitative terms, communicate orally and in writing in a clear and concise manner, understanding the terminology and data pertaining to repair operations and process characteristics of the production activity.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-07: Do you possess at least 1 year experience at the previous lower grade or equivalent experience and education or training working with people from various levels and backgrounds. Experience with a general knowledge of the functions and procedures of production control, records, references, and techniques for developing production control data. Experience assisting or maintaining workflow.
 Yes
 No


3.
GS-09: Do you possess at least 1 year experience, education or training scheduling workflow in more than one area and responsible for coordinating products or materials from support activities. Experience in performing or supervising journeyman level work in a production facility. Experience preparing job or work orders; scheduling various phases of projects into the production facility; following up to see if work is progressing as planned and arranging for adjustments in materials, machine processes, and work sequencing allowing for changes. Experience with current automation support programs to input data, provide status of equipment, and monitor job order status, monitor work priorities, requisition repair parts, track repair parts status, etc.
 Yes
 No


4.
Describe a specific time when you were managing a routine flying and maintenance schedule and an unexpected, high-priority maintenance issue occurred on a transient or assigned aircraft. How did you adjust your maintenance plan, reprioritize jobs, and communicate the changes to your team and other relevant sections to ensure both the immediate issue was addressed and the original schedule was minimally impacted?


5.
Walk me through a situation where a critical aircraft was designated Non-Mission Capable due to a part shortage (NMCS). What steps did you take to coordinate with Materiel Control and other maintenance shops to resolve the issue? Describe how you determined the best course of action, whether it was expediting the part or initiating a cannibalization action, and how you tracked the status until the aircraft was operational.


6.
Tell me about a time you were involved in or had to prepare for a critical event, such as a severe weather evacuation, a flightline emergency, or a combat turnaround drill. How did you use existing procedural checklists to guide your actions? If a checklist wasn't fully adequate, what was your process for making decisions and what did you do after the event to improve the procedure for the future?


7.
Recall a complex maintenance operation you were in charge of that required significant coordination beyond the maintenance teams. Describe how you managed the dispatch of personnel, the movement of aircraft and ground equipment, and the requests for external support services like fueling or fire department standby. How did you use communication systems and visual aids to maintain situational awareness for all stakeholders throughout the process?


8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙