Position Title
Management & Program Analyst (HR Liaison)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13059252P-TSN-343-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7226) 3211 S Northpointe Dr, Fresno, CA
 F. (CA0281)1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 G. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 H. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 I. (FL0067) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 J. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 K. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 L. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 M. (MD0428) 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 N. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 O. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 P. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 Q. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 R. (NY6466) 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 U. (OR6728) 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 V. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 W. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 X. (PR4066) CARR 28 KM 2.0, Bayamon, PR
 Y. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 Z. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AA. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AB. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 AC. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 AD. (UT1428) 1973 N Rulon White, Ogden, UT
 B. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 C. (VA0088) 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 D. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 E. (WV0273) 1250 Edwin Miller Blv, Martinsburg, WV


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below: 

Specialized Experience GS-13: You must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the next lower level (GS-12) in the normal line of progression in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include:

Serving as a Human Resources liaison or Management and Program Analyst by providing consultative guidance and technical advice to managers and leadership on personnel management principles, workforce planning, staffing strategies, Human Capital programs, and related policies and procedures.
Analyzing workforce data, staffing requirements, and Human Capital program effectiveness to identify trends, evaluate organizational needs, and recommend improvements supporting strategic workforce objectives.
Coordinating Human Resources initiatives with servicing HR offices, leadership, and other stakeholders while facilitating recruitment, staffing, workforce planning, and other personnel actions.
Preparing and presenting reports, briefings, training, and recommendations related to Human Resources programs, workforce initiatives, and sensitive personnel matters.
Applying management analysis principles, methods, and techniques to evaluate and improve Human Resources programs, business processes, and organizational operations.
Interpreting and applying Human Resources laws, regulations, policies, and guidance while advising management on personnel actions, hiring authorities, workforce initiatives, and operational challenges.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience serving as a Human Resources liaison or Management and Program Analyst by providing consultative guidance and technical advice to managers and leadership on personnel management principles, workforce planning, staffing strategies, Human Capital programs, and related policies and procedures?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience analyzing workforce data, staffing requirements, and Human Capital program effectiveness to identify trends, evaluate organizational needs, and recommend improvements supporting strategic workforce objectives?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience coordinating Human Resources initiatives with servicing HR offices, leadership, and other stakeholders while facilitating recruitment, staffing, workforce planning, and other personnel actions?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience preparing and presenting reports, briefings, training, and recommendations related to Human Resources programs, workforce initiatives, and sensitive personnel matters?
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience applying management analysis principles, methods, and techniques to evaluate and improve Human Resources programs, business processes, and organizational operations?
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience interpreting and applying Human Resources laws, regulations, policies, and guidance while advising management on personnel actions, hiring authorities, workforce initiatives, and operational challenges?
 Yes
 No


7.
Which of the following statements describes your experience?
 A. Implementing actions related to staffing, recruitment, and placement, special hiring programs (e.g., disability hiring, veteran hiring, student hiring, etc.), classification, and/or labor relations.
 B. Communicating HR Policy with multiple customers.
 C. Researching and applying HR laws, regulations, and principles; thorough knowledge of the concepts, practices, laws, and regulations associated with federal personnel staffing, recruitment, employee relations, performance management and/or workforce planning.
 D. Utilizing automated hiring and personnel processing systems (e.g. HR Connect).
 E. Monitoring/reviewing position descriptions, workplans, performance plan, employee relations matters, promotion and placement products such as posted vacancy announcements, applicant inventories, promotion/referral certificates, and/or personnel actions.
 F. None of the above.


8.
Which following statements best describes your experience?
 Provided technical input to HR programs with organization-wide impact. I worked on assignments in two or more HR areas (i.e. staffing, recruitment, employee development, labor relations, workforce planning or personnel policy). Provided assistance to managers regarding a variety of program issues.
 Provided advice and guidance to managers, including guidance on using existing programs and policies to meet HR needs. Provided advice and guidance involving more than one HR specialty area (i.e. staffing, recruitment, employee development, labor relations, workforce planning or personnel policy).
 Provided technical input to an organization’s recruitment or recruitment marketing programs. Input included issues dealing with labor market analysis, internal labor demand projections, and barriers to successful recruitment. Provided input to executive leadership regarding the most difficult, complex, or sensitive programs issues.
 None of the above


9.
From the following responses, please indicate all of those which you have researched in your work responsibilities:
 A. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR)
 B. OPM regulations and/or directives, Executive Orders, and publications
 C. Internal Revenue Manuals (IRM)
 D. US Code Title 5
 E. Guide to Processing Personnel Actions (GPPA) (Or other formal guidance for processing personnel actions in an automated system)
 F. OPM Qualifications and/or Classification Standards
 H. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
 I. Delegated Examining Operations Handbook (DEOH)
 J. None of the above
 G. NTEU Contract (or other collective bargaining/union agreement)


10.
Select all the analytical systems/tools you have used to extract and/or analyze information.
 A. Spreadsheet software - Microsoft Excel or similar spreadsheet software.
 B. Databases - Microsoft SharePoint, Power BI, or similar data sharing software.
 C. Microsoft Word or similar word processing software.
 D. HR Connect or other automated personnel management system used for processing and maintaining personnel and payroll records for employees.
 E. Single Entry Time Reporting (SETR) or other automated time and attendance management system.
 F. Researching and/or updating databases or online applications (USAStaffing, National Finance Center (NFC) Reporting Center Human Resources Reporting Center, HRRC, or Data Insights).
 G. None of the above.


11.
From the following responses select all the analytical activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work.
 A. Compiled and/or organized data from a variety of sources.
 B. Analyzed data and recommended a solution.
 C. Developed new processes and/or procedures to improve effectiveness.
 D. Identified potential improvements to program practices and procedures to enhance efficiency and quality.
 E. Recommended changes to existing policies, procedures and/or practices to improve the effectiveness of projects/programs and/or administrative processes.
 F. Reviewed processes to ensure efficiency, transparency, and accountability.
 G. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following best describes your analysis and decision-making experience?
 Assisted others in analyzing and evaluating projects and/or operations while working under the direction of a manager or senior employee.
 Independently analyzed and evaluated projects and/or operations with minimal direction of a manager or senior employee.
 Performed tasks related to analyzing or evaluating projects and programs.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of following best describes your experience?
 Prepared or provided input to reports and briefings on technical or policy issues. The written material was non-routine and technical in nature. The written products were used to persuade or influence the audience to take a certain course of action.
 Prepared or provided input to reports and briefings on human resources technical or policy issues. The written material was non-routine and technical in nature. The written products were used to persuade or influence the audience to take a certain course of action.
 Prepared or provided input to reports and briefings within my organization. I composed documents or correspondence involving complex or technical information. I can adapt my writing to the audience's level of knowledge.
 Prepared or provided input to reports and briefings that recommend a specific strategy or course of action concerning technical issues.
 None of the above.


14.
Which of the following statements below best describes your experience communicating presentations, reports, or briefings related to HR projects or processes?

 Performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 Performed this task as a regular part of a job. I performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist them in doing this task because of my expertise.
 None of the above.


15.
Which of the following best describes your experience:
 Participated with my unit dealing with matters which have impact on my organization. I contributed to programs and policies that recognize and value a diverse workforce. I developed and maintained relationships with customers, ensuring that all problems, questions, or complaints are resolved, including technical issues.
 Established and maintained ongoing working relationships with management, other employees internal or external stakeholders, and customers. I addressed problems, questions, or complaints on general issues.
 Cooperated and worked well with management, other employees, or customers on assignments. Assignments were general in nature and dealing with issues that are routine.
 None of the above


16.
Select all the following statements that describe your experience providing customer service.
 A. Authored and presented briefings to management and/or cross-organizational team.
 B. Responsible for facilitating and presenting during meetings or conference calls with customers.
 C. Interacted with customers/stakeholders to gather information such as to clarify discrepancies, to negotiate and/or resolve issues, etc.
 D. Independently briefed your team on technical matters.
 E. Mediated customer complaints on behalf of management and/or business unit.
 F. Collaborated with coworkers and/or customers to create alternative options for resolving problems.
 G. Relied on established procedures to solve problems.
 H. Distinguished between relevant and irrelevant facts to make logical decisions.
 I. Reviewed work products and provided feedback.
 J. Provided guidance and direction on specific programs or processes.
 K. None of the above


17.
Which of the following responses best describes how you have managed your workload?
 Completed assignments as directed with supervision.
 Independently completed assignments as directed.
 Independently prioritized and completed assignments.
 Completed assignments with shifting priorities and deadlines and assisted other co-workers with their workload or projects.
 None of the above.


18.
Select all that describes your experience?
 A. Identified problems and assessed the issues to determine resolution or elevation.
 B. Initiated and completed project activities and work products according to established deadlines.
 C. Established priorities, set deadlines, and monitored workload to ensure timely completion.
 D. Responded to data calls or ad hoc requests for information.
 E. Researched information for data call responses or ad hoc requests including follow up activities.
 F. Independently monitored multiple programs at the same time ensuring timely completion.
 G. None of the above


19.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙