Position Title
Executive Director, Acquisition Program Management
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
DE-13013338-ES-26-VH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a Federal Civil Service employee that currently holds or has held a position in the federal civil service--the federal civil service is defined as positions in the executive, judicial, and legislative branches; it does not include positions in the uniformed services?
The Federal Civil Service includes all appointed positions in:
Competitive Service
Excepted Service
Non-Career Senior Executive Service (SES)
Included are experts and consultants who occupy appointive positions, and individuals in the Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission. 

Note: Except positions in the uniformed services (the armed forces, the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service, and the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration).The District of Columbia Government is not part of the Federal civil service.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your current status or a copy of your Transcript of Service. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement "Required Documents" section.
 Yes
 No


3.
ALL US CITIZENS
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current Career Senior Executive Service (SES) member who have completed a one-year Career-SES Probationary Period?

To verify your eligibility, please submit a copy of your SF-50 showing your Career SES Appointment with your application

 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a former Career Senior Executive Service (SES) member that is reinstatement eligible?

I am eligible for reinstatement to the SES because:
I successfully completed the 1-year SES probationary period or am exempt because I was converted to the SES as a career appointee when the SES was first established, and
left the SES for reasons other than misconduct, neglect of duty, malfeasance, or less than fully successful performance, or resignation after receipt of a notice proposing or directing removal under any of the aforementioned conditions.

To verify your eligibility, please submit a copy of your SF-50 showing your Career SES Appointment with your application.

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you an individual who has successfully completed the OPM-approved SES Candidate Development Program (CDP) and is certified by a QRB?

To verify your eligibility, please submit a copy of your Certificate of Executive Qualifications.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided may be investigated. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 Yes, I certify to the accuracy of my application and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify to the accuracy of my application or continuing with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙