Position Title
Data Scientist
Agency
Executive Director, Office of Acquisition, Logistics and Construction
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12934527-26-HV Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a former employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who:

• formerly occupied a career or career conditional position at the VA within the preceding two years before applying for reemployment at VA; AND,
• voluntarily departed such position, or was subject to a reduction in force, and had a satisfactory performance record while occupying such position; AND,
• since departing VA has maintained licensing requirements, related to the position, if any, and gained skills, knowledge, or other factors related to the position; AND,
• possesses at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of the position sought?

Appointment under this authority is exempt from competitive examining procedures and Veteran's preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in P.L. 115-46, VA Choice and Quality Employment Act of 2017, section 204.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a student and recent graduate of a qualifying educational institution who is:

(1) employed in a qualifying internship or fellowship program at the Department of Veterans Affairs; or
(2) employed in the Department of Veterans Affairs in a volunteer capacity and who are performing substantive duties comparable to those of individuals in an internship or fellowship program and who meet the required number of hours for conversion; or
(3) employed in the Department of Veterans Affairs under a contract or agreement with an external nonprofit organization and who are performing substantive duties comparable to those of individuals in an internship or fellowship program; or
(4) in receipt of Post 9/11 Educational Assistance under chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code (U.S.C.); 


Appointment under this authority is subject to Veteran's preference requirements.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in P.L. 115-46, VA Choice and Quality Employment Act of 2017, section 206. Such documentation may include:

Education - a copy of your latest transcript; statement from the institution's registrar, dean, or other appropriate official; or equivalent documentation.
Employment/Volunteerism - a copy of your Standard Form 50, letter from employer, non-profit agency, etc.
Educational Benefits - a copy of the Post 9/11 Educational Assistance benefit award letter, letter of completion of the Chapter 33 program, etc.

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


7.
Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you:
complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an oversea area; AND,
receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating: AND,
return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago?

For more information, review USAJOBS Former Overseas Employees resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, and performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you the spouse of a current or former member of the Armed Forces? In accordance with revised 5 U.S.C. 3330d(b), the head of an agency may now appoint noncompetitively: the spouse of a member of the armed forces on active duty, the spouse of a 100 percent disabled member of the armed forces, or the spouse of a deceased member of the armed forces.

Active Duty Spouse
Includes all spouses of members of the armed forces on active duty.
Spouses do not have to relocate with active duty spouse.
Based on 100% Disability - As a military spouse, you may be eligible to be considered under this authority if:
The military member was retired under Chapter 61 of title 10, United States Code with a 100% disability rating from the military; or
Was released from active duty and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans' Affairs or the military department.
Based on Service Member's Death
As the military spouse, you may be eligible if the military member was killed while on active duty (it does not have to be combat related), and you have not remarried.

To verify your eligibility, submit the following applicable documents:

Documentation verifying marriage: (i.e., marriage license, certificate or other government issued document certifying marriage to your military spouse or veteran.)
A copy of your spouses active-duty military orders.
DD-214: Certificate of release or discharge from active duty (Military spouses of 100% disabled separated or retired veterans and widows or widowers, who are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
DD 1300: Report of Casualty (Military spouses who are widows and widowers, and are not remarried, of military service members who were killed on active duty.)
Veterans Affairs Benefit Documentation of Deceased or Disabled Veteran. 

For more information, review USAJOBS Military Spouses resources

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


10.
Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?

-OR-

Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?

-OR-

Are you a current or former limited non-career appointee with the Foreign Service and have at least 48 months of continuous service, a performance rating of satisfactory or better, and if a former employee, no more than a one year break in service since your qualifying appointment?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:

• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing?

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the 5 U.S.C. 9602.
 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months?

-OR-

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

-OR-

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you a current Federal employee in the excepted service in an agency covered by an Interchange Agreement with at least one year of service in that position?  

For more information, review Interchange Agreements with Other Merit Systems. 

-OR-

Are you a current:
• Postal Career Service Employee;
• Postal Rate Commission Employee;
• Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; or,
• Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee?

For more information, review Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.
 Yes
 No


15.
Do you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability, or psychiatric disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, certifying your documented disability and eligibility under Schedule A.

 Yes
 No


16.
Do you have prior Career or Career-Conditional Service with the Federal Government? If so, you may be eligible for reinstatement.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your separation SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field box 24. is 1 or 2); AND, 
your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field box 34. is 1).
highest grade previously held (Grade or Level field box 18.)
 Yes
 No


17.
Are you currently employed as a civilian employee in the competitive service in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1)
For more information visit here T5 Transfer
 Yes
 No


18.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran,  AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference; OR,
are eligible for derived preference as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service. If applying as a spouse, widow/widower, or parent of a veteran eligible for derived preference you must provide acceptable documentation of your preference eligibility as outlined on the SF-15 form.  *Note current Federal employees must also meet Time-in-Grade requirements.
 Yes
 No


19.
Are you an active duty service member expected to be discharged or released under honorable conditions within the next 120 days who will be eligible for Veterans' preference?  You may eligible to apply through the Veterans Opportunity to Work (VOW) Act based on tentative preference.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a "certification" on appropriate letterhead from your branch of service that certifies you are expected to be discharged or released from active duty service under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the date the certification is signed.  Note: If selected, prior to appointment you will be required to provide your DD-214 and/or other supporting documentation to verify that you are eligible for Veterans' preference.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the assessment, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Specialized Experience for the GS-14 level of this position: Applicants must have one year of full-time specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-13 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to:

- Planning and leading complex data science projects across the full analytical lifecycle.
- Managing projects that are broadly defined or novel in nature with no established precedent.
- Supporting procurement analytics, small business program participation and utilization trends.
- Technical authority providing guidance on quantitative methodologies, data strategy, and interpretation of results.
- Identifying and mitigating data quality risks to include PII exposure, outdated datasets, and system integrity issues.
- Expert-level proficiency in programming languages and analytical platforms (i.e. Python, R, SQL, SAS, and Tableau).

Do you meet the specialized experience requirement as stated above?
 Yes
 No


2.
Time-in-Grade Requirement: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. For a GS-14 position, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-13 level. If your most recent non-award SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional non-award SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

I understand that I must provide SF-50(s) - Notification of Personnel Action, to verify my eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement and to verify that I possess the time-in-grade requirements for the position. The following information is provided to assist applicants in the submission of appropriate SF-50s to verify eligibility and time-in-grade requirements:

To verify your eligibility to apply to the area of consideration listed in the announcement, you must provide your most recent SF-50 if you are a current or former Federal employee.

An SF-50 showing your time-in-grade eligibility must also be submitted with your application materials. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as outlined in the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

An award SF-50 does not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's to document time-in-grade include: Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.

ATTENTION: You may need to submit more than one SF-50 if we cannot verify that you meet time-in-grade by your most recent SF-50. For example, if your most recent SF-50 is a General Adjustment, we need your most recent SF-50 dated 01/11/2026 and another SF-50 to verify time-in-grade. Examples of SF-50s for time-in-grade verification include your last within-grade increase or promotion to highest grade held. A promotion SF-50 shows when you started the grade level and a within-grade increase verifies that you were at that grade level for at least one year. Failure to provide your most recent SF-50 dated within one year of the closing date and other SF-50s to verify time-in-grade will result in you being disqualified. We cannot verify time-in-grade based on the grade and step you are currently on alone.
 Yes, I meet the Time-in-Grade requirement.
 No, I do not meet the Time-in-Grade requirement.
 This restriction does not apply to me because I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or I am seeking a non-competitive appointment such as Schedule A, or 30% or more disabled veteran appointment.


RESUME REMINDER - Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Assessment 2
Select the best answer for each question based on your job knowledge and experience. There is only one correct answer per question. Please provide an answer to every question.


1.
You are leading a project analyzing several large datasets from different systems. During initial review, you notice that many records contain inconsistent formats and missing fields.
 Establish a data cleaning and validation process before beginning analysis.
 Ignore inconsistencies and proceed with modeling.
 Delete incomplete records immediately.
 Only analyze fields that appear complete.
 Wait for another office to correct the data.


2.
You are tasked with building an interactive dashboard to present predictive model results to executive leadership.
 Export raw data tables into a spreadsheet.
 Use visualization tools such as Tableau to develop interactive visualizations highlighting key insights.
 Provide the code used to build the model.
 Present the data in text format only.
 Send leadership the database file.


3.
While extracting data from a large enterprise database, you notice that the query you wrote is slowing down system performance for other users.
 Continue running the query until it finishes.
 Run multiple copies of the query to complete faster.
 Cancel the query and request database access removal.
 Optimize the query structure and coordinate with the database administrator before running it again.
 Export the entire database instead.


4.
You are writing a script in Python to process unstructured text data using Natural Language Processing. The script begins returning inconsistent results.
 Restart the computer and rerun the script.
 Ignore the inconsistency.
 Rewrite the entire program from scratch.
 Print the results manually.
 Review the code logic, validate preprocessing steps, and test the script using sample datasets.


5.
Leadership asks you to evaluate whether a new small business program has improved participation rates.
 Ask leadership if they believe it is successful.
 Compare program participation trends before and after implementation using appropriate statistical analysis.
 Focus only on anecdotal feedback.
 Present raw numbers without interpretation.
 Wait for another office to conduct the analysis.


6.
While conducting predictive modeling, you discover that a key dataset contains personally identifiable information (PII) that was not previously documented.
 Continue using the dataset normally.
 Delete the dataset permanently.
 Document the issue and follow data governance procedures to ensure proper protection and authorized use.
 Share the dataset with the entire team.
 Export the dataset to a personal workstation.


7.
Your project involves merging structured procurement data with unstructured contractor feedback data.
 Store all data in spreadsheets.
 Convert everything to PDF files.
 Use data integration techniques and structured pipelines to standardize and merge datasets for analysis.
 Keep datasets separate and analyze them independently.
 Manually review each record.


8.
You need to run a machine learning model that requires significant computing power.
 Run it on a personal laptop.
 Use a cloud analytics platform designed for large-scale processing.
 Reduce the dataset size randomly.
 Cancel the modeling effort.
 Export the data to spreadsheets.


9.
A colleague asks you to provide direct database credentials so they can quickly access sensitive datasets.
 Share your credentials to help them.
 Export the database and send it to them.
 Ask them to use your workstation.
 Follow security policy by directing them to request appropriate authorized access.
 Ignore the request.


10.
You must extract large amounts of data from multiple systems that do not have preset specifications.
 Manually copy the data.
 Wait until a report becomes available.
 Use programming languages such as Python or SQL to build scripts that automate data extraction and transformation.
 Ask another department to do it.
 Export small sections repeatedly.


11.
You are reviewing a predictive model built by a contractor and notice the model accuracy appears unusually high.
 Review the methodology, training data, and validation approach to ensure the model is not overfitting.
 Accept the results because the contractor built the model.
 Present the results immediately to leadership.
 Ignore the accuracy concerns.
 Remove variables until the model looks simpler.


12.
While reviewing analytical results, you discover that a dataset used for modeling may contain outdated information.
 Ignore the issue.
 Continue analysis without changes.
 Delete the dataset permanently.
 Ask someone else to verify it.
 Pause the analysis and validate the dataset before using it for decision-making.


13.
Leadership requests a clear visualization showing fraud risk trends across multiple regions.
 Provide raw spreadsheets.
 Develop a clear dashboard or visualization highlighting trends and risk indicators.
 Send database tables.
 Provide code scripts.
 Write a long narrative explanation only.


14.
You discover that a frequently used dataset has multiple duplicated records affecting analysis results.
 Ignore duplicates.
 Manually review every record.
 Export the dataset and rebuild it later.
 Implement database validation and deduplication procedures to ensure data integrity.
 Stop using the database.


15.
A senior leader asks you to explain the implications of a predictive model for program investment decisions.
 Clearly interpret the model results, explain risks and assumptions, and provide evidence-based recommendations.
 Provide only the model output.
 Send the programming code.
 Avoid making recommendations.
 Provide the dataset instead.


16.
You are tasked with building a time series forecasting model to project small business award trends for the next fiscal year. Before beginning model development, what is the most important first step?
 Select the forecasting algorithm based on what performed best in a previous unrelated project.
 Define the research question, identify relevant variables, assess data quality, and document assumptions before selecting a methodology.
 Begin modeling immediately using all available historical data.
 Ask leadership which outcome they prefer the model to predict.
 Use the most recent 12 months of data only to ensure relevance.


17.
You have developed a predictive model to flag procurement anomalies for fraud review. During validation, you discover the model flags vendors in a specific geographic region at a disproportionately high rate with no apparent data-driven justification. What should you do?
 Deploy the model because overall accuracy metrics are strong.
 Remove the geographic variable from the model and redeploy without further review.
 Document the finding, investigate the root cause, and consult leadership and legal counsel before deployment to assess fairness and legal risk.
 Present the model results to leadership without disclosing the disparity.
 Reduce the model's confidence threshold to lower the flag rate for that region.


18.
After deploying a predictive model into production, you observe that its accuracy has declined noticeably over six months. Leadership has not flagged any concerns. What is the appropriate course of action?
 Wait for leadership to raise the issue before taking action.
 Replace the model with a newer algorithm immediately without informing stakeholders.
 Document the performance degradation, investigate root causes such as data drift, retrain or recalibrate the model as needed, and inform leadership proactively.
 Increase the dataset size to compensate for declining accuracy.
 Revert to the previous version of the model without investigation.


19.
You have completed a complex machine learning analysis and are scheduled to brief 1) Program Integration Director, followed by a separate meeting with 2) the OSDBU executive leadership. Your analysis contains several technical caveats that limit the strength of your conclusions. What is the best approach?
 Present only the findings that are statistically significant and omit the caveats to avoid confusion.
 Send the full technical report without a briefing, as the data speaks for itself.
 Simplify the technical details to the point where no caveats are communicated.
 Clearly present findings, translate technical limitations into plain language, and provide evidence-based recommendations that account for those limitations.
 Postpone the briefing until the caveats are resolved.


20.
You have developed a machine learning pipeline that will run monthly against new procurement data. The pipeline must be reliable, auditable, and accessible to authorized analysts across multiple offices. What is the most appropriate deployment approach?
 Save the pipeline as a script on a local workstation and run it manually each month.
 Email the script to each analyst and have them run it independently on their machines.
 Deploy the pipeline on a VA-authorized cloud platform with version control, automated scheduling, logging, and access controls aligned to data classification requirements.
 Run the pipeline once and store the outputs in a shared drive for future reference.
 Ask the contractor to manage the pipeline without establishing VA oversight or documentation.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙