Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13048367B-RCB-0343-14 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14 Level:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include four of the following: experience with Enterprise Risk Management tools, practices, and policies to analyze and report enterprise risks, and to manage risks according to an enterprise risk management framework; experience applying insider threat risk principles, concepts, methods, standards, and practices to accomplish assignments, including procedures and strategies governing the InRM Program (National Insider Threat Policy) and Hub operations; experience with multi-disciplinary security domain functions, such as Personnel Security Continuous Vetting, User Behavior Analytics, Risk Analysis and Mitigation;  experience with Insider Threat Risk Assessments to identify vulnerabilities and weaknesses, and provide actionable risk mitigation strategies to detect, deter, and mitigate Insider Threats; experience with oral and written techniques to diplomatically interact and communicate with executives, managers, employees, and external customers.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-14 Level:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position must include four of the following: experience with Enterprise Risk Management tools, practices, and policies to analyze and report enterprise risks, and to manage risks according to an enterprise risk management framework; experience applying insider threat risk principles, concepts, methods, standards, and practices to accomplish assignments, including procedures and strategies governing the InRM Program (National Insider Threat Policy) and Hub operations; experience with multi-disciplinary security domain functions, such as Personnel Security Continuous Vetting, User Behavior Analytics, Risk Analysis and Mitigation; experience with Insider Threat Risk Assessments to identify vulnerabilities and weaknesses, and provide actionable risk mitigation strategies to detect, deter, and mitigate Insider Threats; experience with oral and written techniques to diplomatically interact and communicate with executives, managers, employees, and external customers.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
Which of the following describe your experience as it relates to Security Insider Threat Analyst?
 A. Conducting threat analysis.
 B. Provide security assessments of threats and vulnerabilities.
 C. Produce security investigative leads and uncover policy violations.
 D. Assess security risk posed by trusted insiders.
 E. None of the above.


3.
Which of the following describes your experience(s) with security threat analysis?
 A. Identifying potential criminal behaviors and activities.
 B. Conducting assessments to systematically evaluate risks.
 C. Analyzes reports to help initialize or support law enforcement and/or counterintelligence investigations.
 D. Utilize quantitative and qualitative methods to measure and assess the impact and risk of insider threats.
 E. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following describes your experience(s) with security data and information management?
 A. Managing relevant security databases to find, extract, store, and retrieve relevant information.
 B. Review, evaluate, and adjudicate reports of investigations, personnel files, and other records for threat risks.
 C. Developing, entering, updating, and organizing data in information systems/databases so that it can be accessed by self and others.
 D. None of the above.


5.
Which of the following best describes your experience(s) with security awareness training?
 Leading briefings and/or training at the workforce level to promote awareness of potential insider threats and reporting requirements.
 Leading briefings and/or training at the executive level to promote awareness of potential insider threats and reporting requirements.
 Evaluate and revise briefings and required training for insider threat program personnel.
 Develop, coordinate, and execute security and/or insider threat awareness training requirements with internal and external stakeholders.
 None of the above.


6.
Do you have experience with behavioral science interventions (i.e., surveys, interviews, etc.) to minimize insider risk?
 Yes
 No


7.
Which describes your experience identifying, assessing, and mitigating risk management issues?
 A. Communicated the principles of risk management in my organization.
 B. Developed an action plan of identified risks related to work processes and/or procedures.
 C. Identified risks, proposed solutions to mitigate risks, and elevated for consideration and/or resolution.
 D. Documented specific risks, mitigating factors, and recommendations via an online software for risk management (e.g., Governance Risk Compliance software [GRC], Risk Acceptance Form and Tool [RAFT]).
 E. None of the above.


8.
Which of the following describes your experience with risk quantitative analysis?
 A. Developed and implemented Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).
 B. Conducted benchmarking and developed dashboards.
 C. Compared metrics against program goals.
 D. Leveraged analysis to make program improvements.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following describes your experience?
 A. Developed robust analysis strategy which produced analysis against outcomes and supported issue identification and risk mitigation strategies.
 B. Evaluated project risks and developed and implemented risk mitigation plans and/or strategies.
 C. Successfully identified and mitigated an organizational risk that minimized negative impact to the organization.
 D. None of the above


10.
Which of the following best describes your experience?
 Assisted in conducting policy reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of current policies and practices, and developed proposals to change policies and improve practices for impacting governance functions.
 Assisted in developing compliance and assessment internal controls/risk management analytical studies and evaluation methodologies.
 Participated on a quality or process improvement team and provided feedback for a new risk management initiative.
 Led as the senior/lead specialist in developing, formulating, implementing, and assessing the compliance, risk, and effectiveness of risk management activities and programs.
 None of the above


11.
Which of the following best describe your technical expertise managing, leading, or contributing to the implementation of large programs or projects?
 Managed or lead large Programs and Projects, providing expertise in requirements management, formulating design documents or providing written technical guidance relative to the design, implementation, and adoption of requirement protocols.
 Member of a team responsible for the implementation of large programs or projects and have experience gathering user requirements, identifying and completing programming or other technical tasks associated with project implementation.
 Responsible for interpreting user requirements and programming system enhancements or managing a contractor completing program or project specific enhancements.
 None Of the Above


12.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience as a Program or Project Manager?
 Served in the role of a program or project lead directing a team comprised of programmers, analysts, and system administration personnel and/or risk field experts from concept formulation through design and deployment.
 Served on a program or project as an expert or specialist to represent a specific area of expertise and/or specific function within the organization.
 Served in a full time position as a leader of a group which was involved in accomplishing special projects, studies, or assignments.
 Served as a technical advisor or am often called upon to provide advice or guidance to leadership and/or at high level meetings.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of the following have you done when determining the activities required to complete programs or projects related to risk mitigation?
 A. Risk collection instrument (i.e., surveys, questionnaires, assessments, etc.).
 B. Explanations of statistical and analytical findings.
 C. Technical tools (i.e., PowerBI, Splunk, Tableau, etc.).
 D. Providing advisory services to managers regarding a variety of risk-related audits.
 E. None of the Above


14.
Which of the following best describes your experience researching, analyzing, and formulating recommendations for programs or projects.
 Conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations for one program or project.
 Conducting research, performing analyses, and formulating recommendations on two or more programs or projects that cross multiple business units.
 Conducting research, performing analyses, and/or formulating recommendations on a set of activities that I am solely responsible for producing.
 None of the above


15.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience with program/project management?
 Led the development of a project plan that accurately identified the purpose, scope, objectives, and activities necessary to successfully complete the program/project and implement it.
 Developed and managed project schedules and ensured schedules were met.
 Determined resource allocation necessary to properly manage and deliver project/program objectives.
 Participated in the development of a project plan and assisted with the management of project schedules; Familiar with resource allocation necessary to properly manage and deliver project/program objectives.
 Led the development of a risk management project plan that accurately identified the purpose, scope, objectives, and activities necessary to successfully complete the program/project.
 Limited experience with the components and purpose of a project plan, developing project schedules and resource allocation.
 None of the Above.


16.
Which of the following tools have you used to apply analytical techniques to a business improvement process?
 A. Led a team that identified data collection/analysis methods to be used to assess effectiveness of business improvement processes.
 B. Led a team that analyzed data using advanced statistical methods (e.g., multivariate analysis, advanced regression, etc.) and then made recommendations to stakeholders based on the results of the analyses.
 C. Participated in a process implementation team using business improvement analytics.
 D. Led a team that gathered data on process improvement effectiveness using surveys and/or other methods of data collection.
 E. None of the above


17.
Which best represents your experience with insider threat strategic planning.
 Oversaw the implementation of a strategic plan for a national organization or agency.
 Designed and implemented a strategic plan across a business unit which required cross-functional communication.
 Advised or communicated a broad-scale strategic plan to executives and stakeholders.
 Assisted in creating a strategic plan and/or communicated strategic goals to employees and administrative staff.
 None of the above


18.
Which of the following describes your experience involving workflow processes?
 A. Played a central role in developing, communicating, and implementing a new work process beyond my workgroup to improve customer satisfaction, employee engagement, or business results.
 B. Negotiated complex issues with stakeholders of diverse backgrounds, both internal and external to my organization and found common ground.
 C. Conducted reviews to evaluate the effectiveness of programs, policies, and practices, and developed proposals to change policies and improve practices for impacting one or more functions.
 D. Served in a role whereby I was responsible for identifying and implementing programs that enhanced employees' careers and provided leadership through team building, coaching, or mentoring.
 E. Established a process to identify and mitigate, or elevate risks within my agency.
 F. None of the above


19.
Please select all of the functions you have performed regarding strategic planning.
 A. Integrated the interests of key internal and external stakeholders (e.g., Treasury, other agencies, Business Units and NTEU etc.) when developing strategic business plans.
 B. Advised executives on principles, standards, practices, and methodologies of strategic business planning to increase ownership, buy-in, and championing of the plan.
 C. Familiarized employees with contents of a strategic plan to promote an understanding of the link between business goals.
 D. None of the above


20.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?

 Yes
 No


21.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙