Position Title
Dietitian - Clinical - Home Based Primary Care
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12957487-26-GH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Dietitian for Home Based Primary Care at the CASPER, WY CBOC, GS-0630-7/9/11 position with the Veterans Health Administration. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade determination requirements.


Basic Requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Dietitian candidates must be proficient inspoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Registration.  All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Note: Applicants who hold the RDN credential have met the education requirement (e.g. bachelor's degree or higher) of CDR, as such this occupation is considered professional and scientific with a positive education requirement and the procedures in Part I, Chapter 4 of this Handbook will be followed when applying Veteran's preference.

Exception for Dietitians who do not possess the RDN credential. Non-credentialed Dietitians who meet the basic qualification requirements and have fulfilled the requirements below, but do not possess the RDN credential, may be given a temporary full-time appointment not to exceed one year under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2). Non-credentialed Dietitians must have fulfilled each of the following:
Earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent (refer below).
Completed an ACEND® accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. A list of ACEND® accredited programs is located on the ACEND® website or at ACEND Accredited Programs Directory.
Foreign Education. To be creditable, college and/or university degrees earned outside the U.S and its territories must be evaluated by ACEND® and meet ACEND®'s International Dietitian Education standards which are designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and competencies to sit for the CDR credentialing exam. ***Must provide evaluation report from ACEND®***

Please select the answer that best describes your credential status.
 Yes, I hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR).
 I do not hold the RDN credential; however, would like to be considered under th exception.
 My foreign education was evaluated by ACEND and was found to have met ACEND's standards.
 I do not meet the credential requirement and do NOT want to be considered under the exception.


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's or higher education or other details to support your response.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.):
Month and Year conferred:


Grade Determination
In addition to the basic requirements stated above, the following qualification criteria must be met for each grade. The candidate's qualifications must clearly demonstrate the level of competence required for the grade.


3.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09.
Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07).

Assignments at the GS-07 level. They work under the guidance of a Dietitian who is at the full performance level or above, performing increasingly complex tasks designed to prepare them for promotion. Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments for patients with lower acuity using the NCP while developing skills to apply evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines. Clinical Dietitians learn to interpret research, apply whole health principles and develop patient-centered goals. They develop skills in accurate record keeping of clinical activities and complete patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians comply with The Joint Commission (TJC) requirements and other accrediting agency standards to ensure safe and quality patient care. They collaborate with the Food Operations Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience and ensure patient satisfaction.

OR

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college.

Please select the answer that best describes your qualifying education.
 I have 1 year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-07).
 I hold a master's degree from a regionally accredited university/college.
 I do NOT meet either requirements at the GS-09 level.


3a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Master's education or other details to support your response. If you are claiming experience mark this section N/A
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Level of Education:
Month and Year conferred:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09.Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Ability to develop patient-centered goals. 
Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.

Do you meet all the required KSAs listed above? 
 Yes
 No


5.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11.Experience. At least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-09). 

Assignment at the GS-09 level. Employees in this assignment serve in a Dietitian (Clinical)developmental position. They perform increasingly complex tasks under general supervision. Clinical Dietitians conduct nutrition assessments using the NCP. They develop skills in applying evidence-based nutrition practice guidelines, interpreting research and utilizing whole health principles to develop patient-centered goals and improve outcomes. Clinical Dietitians also utilize virtual care technology to improve access to care. Theymaintain accurate record keeping of daily clinical activities and patient encounters using approved systems. Clinical Dietitians comply with TJC and other accrediting agency standards to ensure safe and quality patient care. They collect data related to performance improvement activities within Nutrition and Food Services (NFS) and assist in implementing new initiatives. Clinical Dietitians collaborate with the Food Service Section to enhance the Veterans' dining experience, support patient satisfaction and serve as a liaison between clinical units and the food service section.

Do you meet the 1 year of experience at the next lower grade level?
 Yes
 No


6.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11.
Registration.  For the GS-11 level all applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. 

Do you hold a RDN credential through the CDR?
 Yes
 No


7.
Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, thecandidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment,diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.

Do you meet all the required KSAs listed above? 
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
 Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.  

SF-50 REMINDER - If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/resignation SF-50.  This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50.  A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's. Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.  

CERTIFICATION AND/OR TRANSCRIPTS - Please provide a copy of your official transcripts and licensure to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.

MILITARY DOCUMENT REMINDER - If you are a veteran claiming Veterans Preference you must submit the most recent Member 2 or Member 4 copy of your DD-214. If you are claiming 10-point CP or CPS of XP, you must also submit a copy of your SF-15 and a copy of your Service-Connected Disability letter that shows your total percentage rating. Your veteran status cannot be verified without these documents, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙