Position Title
BOILER PLANT OPERATOR
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-13031440-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 40 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Employee shifts are rotated on a regularly scheduled basis. Are you willing and able to work on a rotating shift basis to meet work requirements?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has been designated "Mission Essential". In the event of severe weather conditions or other such emergency type situations (natural or man-made disaster) the incumbent is required to report to work or remain at work as scheduled to support mission operations. Are you willing and able to report to work or remain at work under adverse conditions to obtain and maintain this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Boiler Plant Operator position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Boiler Plant Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Boiler Plant Operator duties. I am skilled in adjusting the Boilers or auxiliary equipment to cope with emergency conditions and/or prevent a major breakdown or accident. I provide heat for use in operation of industrial facilities and equipment. Perform operational maintenance, adjustments and repairs to boilers and auxiliary equipment. Perform annual boilers maintenance in preparation of a third-party inspection, cleans fire side, water side, replaces gaskets, safety relief valves, and associated parts. Assist boiler inspector during inspection, perform safety checks, hydro the boilers, and makes corrective actions as necessary per inspector. Operate plant in such manner as to produce the required amount of steam and obtain maximum combustion efficiency. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Boiler Plant Operator. I am skilled in making on-the-spot decisions about steps needed to assure the safe operation of the plant. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I monitor electronic control boards, operating machinery, instruments, and control equipment and makes demand adjustments to maintain adequate pressures, temperatures, steam flows, maximum combustion and supplies of fuel, air and water mixtures and to comply with EPA and State air pollution control requirements. Exercises knowledge in the maintenance of plant and possess the skill to start up from cold start through normal operations and to shutdown boiler, as necessary. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties of Boiler Plant Operator. I can operate a variety of High Pressure and/or Multi-fuel powered Boilers and all related auxiliary equipment. Ability to inspect a variety of High Pressure and/or Multi-fuel powered Boilers, and auxiliary equipment such as; pumps, Water softener, Deaerators, and Dealkalizer. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties of Boiler Plant Operator. I have received training on duties performed in industrial boiler plant operations/repairs, operate tools and equipment when making repairs to boilers.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙