Position Title
Program Analyst (Informatics)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12908187-26-NAS Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a career as a Program Analyst (Informatics) with the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). The following will determine that you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Please refer to the qualifications section of the announcement for more information on minimum qualifications. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.

You Must Submit Appropriate SF-50s as Described in the Announcement or you Will be Found Ineligible

The following questions relate to your ability to qualify as a Program Analyst with the VHA.


1.
Area of Consideration: Please choose the answer below that best describes your inclusion for the area of consideration for applying to this position.

Which area of consideration do you claim?
 I am a current permanent employee of the Wilkes-Barre VA Medical Center
 I am a current permanent employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VHA, VBA, NCA, VACO, etc.)
 I do not fall into the area of consideration for this job announcement


2.
Time-In-Grade GS-09: Applicants must meet the requirement to have spent at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-07 grade to be eligible for the GS-09 grade.

NOTE: Time-In-Grade does not apply to employees in Wage Grade positions

Please choose the answer below that best corresponds to your time-in-grade.
 I currently hold a GS-07 graded position and have for at least 52 weeks and qualify for the GS-09
 I am currently a GS-09 or higher and qualify for the GS-09 based on time-in-grade
 I am currently a Wage Grade employee and time-in-grade does not apply for me
 I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements set forth in this question


3.
Time-In-Grade GS-11: Applicants must meet the requirement to have spent at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-09 grade to be eligible for the GS-11 grade.

NOTE: Time-In-Grade does not apply to employees in Wage Grade positions

Please choose the answer below that best corresponds to your time-in-grade.
 I currently hold a GS-09 graded position and have for at least 52 weeks and qualify for the GS-11
 I am currently a GS-11 or higher and qualify for the GS-11 based on time-in-grade
 I am currently a Wage Grade employee and time-in-grade does not apply for me
 I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for the GS-11 grade


4.
Time-In-Grade GS-12: Applicants must meet the requirement to have spent at least one year (52 weeks) time-in-grade at the GS-11 grade to be eligible for the GS-12 grade.

NOTE: Time-In-Grade does not apply to employees in Wage Grade positions

Please choose the answer below that best corresponds to your time-in-grade.
 I currently hold a GS-11 graded position and have for at least 52 weeks and qualify for the GS-12
 I am currently a GS-12 or higher and qualify for the GS-12 based on time-in-grade
 I am currently a Wage Grade employee and time-in-grade does not apply for me
 I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements set forth in this question


5.
Specialized Experience GS-09: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-07. Choose the option that best fits your experience level.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Skill in applying a wide range of established practices, theories, and emerging information in health care delivery, informatics and applications; knowledge and use of clinical software packages; broad knowledge of VHA operations, national databases, EHR architecture and file structure; analytical techniques, and clinical applications development techniques; in order to provide general informatics consulting services and to develop and deliver segments of appropriate informatics educational and training programs to VHA employees.

Qualifying Based on Education: You may qualify for this position based on education.  To qualify for this position based on education, you must demonstrate you have:
     a. Master's or equivalent graduate degree
OR
     b. 2 full years of pgogressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
OR
     c. LL.B. or J.D., if related, Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree

Education and Experience: Equivalent combinations of education and experience are qualifying for all grade levels for which both education and experience are acceptable. Combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements for the grade levels specified in the table, and may be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-11.

Please choose the answer that best describes how you meet the specialized experience requirement.
 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-07. Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position by training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Skill in applying a wide range of established practices, theories, and emerging information in health care delivery, informatics and applications; knowledge and use of clinical software packages; broad knowledge of VHA operations, national databases, EHR architecture and file structure; analytical techniques, and clinical applications development techniques; in order to provide general informatics consulting services and to develop and deliver segments of appropriate informatics educational and training programs to VHA employees.
 I am qualified for the position based on my educational qualifications
 I am qualified for the position based on a combination of my educational qualifications and my specialized experience
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements for the GS-09


6.
Specialized Experience GS-11: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09 Choose the option that best fits your experience level.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Knowledge and skill in applying a wide range of advanced practices, theories, and emerging information in health care delivery, HI and applications; knowledge in the use of clinical software packages; experienced knowledge of VHA operations, national databases architecture and file structure, analytical techniques, and clinical applications development techniques; in order to be able to provide knowledgeable and professional health informatics consulting services and to develop and deliver appropriate HI educational and training programs to all levels of employees, internal and external to the VA thorough in-depth knowledge of the clinical environment, including practices, procedures, policies, strengths, and weaknesses to effectively use data to track and manage patient care.

Qualifying Based on Education: You may qualify for this position based on education.  To qualify for this position based on education, you must demonstrate you have:
     a. Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
OR
     b. 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
OR
     c. LL.M., if related

Education and Experience: Equivalent combinations of education and experience are qualifying for all grade levels for which both education and experience are acceptable. Combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements for the grade levels specified in the table, and may be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify an applicant for that grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at grades GS-9 and GS-11.

Please choose the answer that best describes how you meet the specialized experience requirement.
 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-09. Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position by training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Knowledge and skill in applying a wide range of advanced practices, theories, and emerging information in health care delivery, HI and applications; knowledge in the use of clinical software packages; experienced knowledge of VHA operations, national databases architecture and file structure, analytical techniques, and clinical applications development techniques; in order to be able to provide knowledgeable and professional health informatics consulting services and to develop and deliver appropriate HI educational and training programs to all levels of employees, internal and external to the VA thorough in-depth knowledge of the clinical environment, including practices, procedures, policies, strengths, and weaknesses to effectively use data to track and manage patient care.
 I am qualified for the position based on my educational qualifications
 I am qualified for the position based on a combination of my educational qualifications and my specialized experience
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements for the GS-11


7.
Specialized Experience GS-12: You must meet the specialized experience requirement for this position by demonstrating one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-11 Choose the option that best fits your experience level.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Comprehensive knowledge and skill in applying a wide range of advanced practices, theories, and emerging information in health care delivery, HI and applications; knowledge in the use of clinical software packages; experienced knowledge of VHA operations, national databases architecture and file structure, analytical techniques, and clinical applications development techniques; in order to be able to provide knowledgeable and professional health informatics consulting services and to develop and deliver appropriate HI educational and training programs to all levels of employees, internal and external to the VA thorough in-depth knowledge of the clinical environment, including practices, procedures, policies, strengths, and weaknesses to effectively use data to track and manage patient care.

Qualifying Based on Education: Not Applicable at the GS-12 grade

Education and Experience: Not Applicable at the GS-12 grade

Please choose the answer that best describes how you meet the specialized experience requirement.
 I have 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least GS-11. Experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position by training, leading, coordinating or supervising others in related duties such as: Comprehensive knowledge and skill in applying a wide range of advanced practices, theories, and emerging information in health care delivery, HI and applications; knowledge in the use of clinical software packages; experienced knowledge of VHA operations, national databases architecture and file structure, analytical techniques, and clinical applications development techniques; in order to be able to provide knowledgeable and professional health informatics consulting services and to develop and deliver appropriate HI educational and training programs to all levels of employees, internal and external to the VA thorough in-depth knowledge of the clinical environment, including practices, procedures, policies, strengths, and weaknesses to effectively use data to track and manage patient care.
 I do not meet the specialized experience requirements for the GS-12


Documentation: If you are attempting to qualify based on your education you must submit conferred transcripts to show you meet the requirements. If you do not include conferred transcripts and attempt to qualify based on education, you will be found ineligible.

You Must Submit Appropriate SF-50s as Described in the Announcement or you Will be Found Ineligible


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙