Position Title
Legal Administrative Specialist (Trademark)
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
TMCO-TMSR-26-13016540-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current U.S. Patent and Trademark Office employee in the competitive service?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2) and Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1). 

Please note: Examples of appropriate SF-50s include promotions, with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may have to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current USPTO employee who holds or has previously held a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2) AND
Your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect your status was in the competitive service (Block #34 Position Occupied is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


5.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


6.
Are you currently receiving or are you scheduled to receive severance pay as a result of a Reduction in Force (RIF) from a Federal Agency?
 Yes
 No


Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Legal Administrative Specialist (Trademark) position with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). Your resume and the responses you provide will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped applicants with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the federal service.


Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for the Legal Administrative Specialist (Trademark) position.


1.
At the GS-07 grade level, select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Trademark). 
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level or equivalent. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience in reviewing and processing newly filed trademark applications and supporting documents to ensure compliance with statutory and procedural requirements and identifying applications that require further review; Experience in identifying, tagging, and uploading key data elements using text-editing or automated tools, ensuring accuracy before attorney examination; and Experience in providing routine legal administrative support by maintaining dockets, responding to basic internal customer inquiries by email or phone.
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (You must include your transcripts).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
At the GS-09 grade level, select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level or equivalent. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience in reviewing and coding trademark applications and supporting documents to help determine compliance with legal and procedural requirements, including trademark submissions such as extension requests, statements of use, affidavits of use, and address changes; Experience in researching trademark laws, regulations, and examination guidelines to help resolve procedural or factual issues by searching records, references, and historical materials in support of trademark examination; and Experience in using automated systems and collaboration tools to process trademark applications, maintain docket records, and communicate routine legal administrative information orally and in writing to internal and external customers.
 I have successfully completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (You must include your transcripts).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
At the GS-11 grade level, select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Legal Administrative Specialist (Trademark).
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level or equivalent. Specialized experience is defined as: Experience in examining and making determinations on trademark prosecution and registration matters, including requests to divide, statements of use, extensions of time, express abandonments, renewals, and corrections, by applying knowledge of trademark laws, rules of practice, and examination guidelines; Experience in providing advanced legal administrative support to a trademark organization by preparing and reviewing correspondence related to applications and/or registrations, and preparing reports related to quality control, responding to internal and external inquiries, and training or assisting others on policies, guidelines, and workflow issues; and Experience in conducting basic research on trademark laws, rules of practice, and examination procedures, including Madrid Protocol filings, in determining compliance with legal and procedural requirements.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or degree; or a LL.B, LL.M., or J.D. (You must attach your transcripts).
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate level education that together meet 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (You must include your transcripts).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙