Position Title
Supervisory Attorney-Advisor (CR) (Assistant Regional Attorney) - TEMP PROMOTION/DETAIL
Agency
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12937367-26-MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently or have been a political Schedule A, Schedule C or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch within the last 5 years, you must disclose this in your application package. Have you served on a Schedule C appointment or as a political appointee anytime within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Basic Requirement - Carefully read the following descriptions and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the 0905 series.
 I have earned a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association AND I am an active member of the Bar.
 I have training equivalent to a professional law degree (J.D. or LL.B.) AND am an active member of the Bar.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


2.
FACTOR: Minimum Qualifications GS-15

Carefully read the following descriptions of education and experience and select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-15 Supervisory Attorney-Advisor (Civil Rights) (Assistant Regional Attorney) position.
 I have four years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service.
 I have three years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service and possess a second law degree (LL.M.) which can substitute for one year of experience.
 I have two years of professional legal experience with at least one-year equivalent to the GS-14 level in the federal service and possess both a second (LL.M.) and third (J.S.D.) professional law degree which may be substituted for one year of experience each.
 I do not have education or experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙