Position Title
Personnel Security Specialist
Agency
Office of Administration
Announcement Number
EOP-OA-13039209-26-DLH-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 27, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a permanent competitive service employee assigned to the hiring agency seeking a reassignment or promotion under Merit Promotion procedures?  If yes, confirm:
You are currently employed on a permanent appointment in the competitive service with the EOP
Your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, block 24 is a "1" or "2" and block 34 is a "1"
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status.  If you have previously held a higher grade or if your position has a full performance level, please ensure you submit all of the SF-50's to support your prior appointments.  We cannot accept Award SF-50's.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


7.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies within the Executive Office of the President who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0080-07, Personnel Security Specialist position.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector that demonstrates all of the following: Working with the basic principles, concepts, policies and methods of personnel security administration; and 2) Accessing automated systems to obtain investigations and clearance information.
 I possess 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision; Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: • (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; OR • (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR • (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/).
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience. (Combinations of successfully completed education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements as specified above. May be computed by first determining the applicant's total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level; then determining the applicant's education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level; and then adding the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.
 I do not possess all areas of the specialized experience as described above.


2.
Please select the response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0080-09, Personnel Security Specialist position.
 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private sector that demonstrates all of the following: 1). Using automated filing system to track, maintain, and update or control secure and private information. 2) Gathering and coordinating records of evidence in support of proposed personnel security and suitability actions and decisions; and; 3) Submitting disposition requests to the appropriate court, law enforcement agency, or other source in order to obtain clarification or additional information regarding cases.
 I have successfully completed a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of the above described education and specialized experience such that they total 100% when combined. To determine your combination, first compute your experience as a percentage of the experience listed above; then determine your education as a percentage of the education listed above; then add the two percentages. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent. (Only graduate level education in excess of two years (36 semester hours) may be combined with specialized experience. You must submit a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess all areas of the specialized experience as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in the questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙