Position Title
Child and Youth Program Custodian
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0055 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Custodian. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in using a variety of chemical and cleaning agents?
 I have 3+ years of experience in using chemical and cleaning agents.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in using chemical and cleaning agents.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in using chemical and cleaning agents.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments within a work environment?
 I have 3+ years of experience in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments within a work environment.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments within a work environment.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in using a variety of household and industrial equipment and attachments.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have with room setup and/or moving furniture in a work setting?
 I have 3+ years of experience with room setup and/or moving furniture in a work setting.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience with room setup and/or moving furniture in a work setting.
 I have less than 1 year of experience with room setup and/or moving furniture.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
Do any of the following statements apply to you? **Documents must be submitted at the time of application for consideration**

A.  My spouse is an active-duty military member stationed at Commander Fleet Activities Sasebo, and my name is on my spouse's orders/ family entry approval. I will submit both documents. 
B.  I am a dependent of an active-duty military member stationed at Commander Fleet Activities Sasebo, and my name is on my sponsor's orders/family entry approval. I will submit both documents. 
C.  I am an approved dependent of a civilian federal employee employed at Commander Fleet Activities Sasebo, and my name listed on their letter of employment (LOE). I will submit an LOE. 
D.  I am currently employed with CNIC at Commander Fleet Activities Sasebo and have an unexpired letter of employment (LOE). I will submit my LOE.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙