Position Title
Aquatic Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
27-13082224
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 20, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member? If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. NOTE 2: You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes: A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license. Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No
CNRMA Recreation Specialist Aquatics Mgr
1.
Do you meet the minimum qualification of at least two years of documented lifeguarding experience, including a minimum of six months in a leadership or supervisory role? Must be documented on your resume.
 Yes
 No
2.
Do you possess a current Red Cross water Safety Instructor Certification and 1st Aid and Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Instructor Certificate and AED certification?
 Yes I have an unexpired Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Certification , CPR, First Aid and AED certification and have uploaded these documents
 Yes I have an unexpired Red Cross Water Safety Instructor Certification, CPR, First Aid and AED certification but have not uploaded these documents and will be required to show proof at time of interview
 No I do not have all the certifications required for this position
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
3.
Availability to work weekends and holidays as well as rotating shifts, often consisting of other than normal duty hours
 Yes
 No
4.
How much experience in leading and/or supervising in a fitness/aquatics environment have you documented on your resume?
 Four plus years in a Navy fitness/aquatics setting
 Four plus years at a civilian fitness/aquatics setting
 Less than 4 years of experience in either a Navy or civilian fitness aquatics setting
 No documented experience
5.
How much experience with inventory, credit card processing and/or budget management have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years in a Navy fitness/aquatics setting
 Two plus years in a civilian fitness/aquatics setting
 One to two years in any setting
 One year or less in any setting
 No documented experience
6.
Have you upload proof of Certifications (Red Cross Water Safety Instructor and 1st Aid and CPR and AED)
 Yes I have uploaded proof of all required certifications
 No I have not uploaded proof of all required certifications
