Position Title
IT CYBERSECURITY SPECIALIST (INFOSEC) (T32 Merit)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13038848-AR-26-220 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:
 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/MOS to include skill level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
Drill status and Full-time positions listed separately
Duties listed under each position held(be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
Employer's name and address
Supervisor's name and contact information
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
High school graduation date, if applicable
AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position. 

 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you possess at least one year of IT Specialized experience at least at the GS09 level or equivalent OR a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree? Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular competencies/knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position and is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Such experience is typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.
 Yes
 No


5.
Do you possess at least 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS09? Specialized experience includes experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Do you possess experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls; Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment; Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion?
 Yes
 No


6.
In detail, explain your IT related experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you possess IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 Yes
 No


8.
In detail, explain your knowledge of and skill in applying methods for evaluating, implementing, and disseminating IT security tool and procedures; IT security certification and accreditation requirements; network operations and protocols; and computer forensics principles.


9.
In detail, explain your experience determining the most appropriate principles, practices, and methods to apply in all phases of assignments, including the approach to be taken, degree of intensity, and depth of research in management advisories; interprets regulations on his/her own initiative, applies new methods to resolve complex and/or intricate, controversial, or unprecedented issues and problems, and resolves most of the conflicts that arise and keeping your supervisor informed of progress and of potentially controversial matters.


10.
In detail, explain your xxperience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls.


11.
In detail, explain your experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment.


12.
In detail, explain your experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
Do you acknowledge and concur that you agree with the following conditions of employment:
 Incumbent must complete appropriate training and obtain required certifications IAW DoDI 8140 or DOD 8570.01M or applicable governing document(s) for Cyber workforce as an IA Technician Level within 9 months of employment pending training seat availability.
 Yes
 No


14.
Do you acknowledge that your have uploaded all required documents to include IT related certifications in order to support your resume?
 Yes
 No


15.
For any responses where you selected "Yes", "C" I have performed this task on the job,  "D"- I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee or "E- I am considered an expert in performing this task" identify where in your resume this experience is substantiated. (Please limit your response to no more than 500 words.)


16.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙