Position Title
Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12914539-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist position. We will review your résumé and questionnaire responses to determine whether you meet the basic qualifications for this role. Please note that your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and any submitted documentation.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f)
 Yes
 No


2.
Education, Experience, or Certification Requirement: Select one of the following responses that best describe your level of experience, education, and/certification.
 I possess an Associates or higher degree in the biomedical technology or biomedical engineering field; OR
 I possess an Associates or higher degree in electronics, a field of information technology, or engineering (other than biomedical engineering) AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR
 Completion of the Department of Defense (DOD) biomedical equipment technician training program; OR
 Completion of a DOD training program in repair and maintenance of electronic systems or information technology AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 Completion of a biomedical engineering technician or Healthcare Technology Management (HTM) certificate program that included an internship or apprenticeship; OR (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 Completion of biomedical engineering technician or HTM certificate program that did not include an internship AND 1 year of creditable experience; OR (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 Hold or having ever held certification as a Certified Biomedical Equipment Technician (CBET), Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES), Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES), or Certified Healthcare Technology Manager (CHTM). Continuous maintenance of certification is not required throughout VHA employment. (Please ensure all supporting documentation is submitted with your application.)
 My education, experience, or certification is not described above.


3.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.

GS-05

Experience or Education: None beyond the basic requirements.
 Yes, I meet the above requirement.
 No, I do not meet the above requirement.


4.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.

GS-07

Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
Examples of creditable include: Perform basic tasks, troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on general medical equipment, assist with incoming inspections and documentation.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of physics, anatomy, and physiology.
Knowledge of electronics such as analog, digital, and microprocessor theory.
Knowledge of the use of standard level test equipment such as multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
Knowledge of basic networking concepts, such as computer and server hardware and software functionality, information technologies and computer virus protection software, available software patches and upgrades, and information security tools (for example, Microsoft Office, Windows operating systems, and McAfee).
Skill in documenting all services provided in support of medical equipment and clinical systems in a computerized maintenance management system.
Ability to learn equipment operating and maintenance procedures.

Do you posses one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade?
 Yes, I meet the above experience requirement AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade..
 No, I do not meet the above experience requirement AND / OR the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade..


5.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.

GS-09

Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.

Examples of creditable include: Troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on general medical equipment. Under less frequent supervision, but receive guidance and direction regarding unfamiliar or unusual situations for more complex issues.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of basic networking concepts including Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Knowledge of computer and server hardware and software functionality including virus protection, operating system patches and upgrades, and information security tools.
Ability to interpret a variety of technical data such as schematic drawings, wiring diagrams, table charts, mathematical expressions, and formulas.
Ability to use standard level test equipment including multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, patient simulators, storage oscilloscopes, manometers, and tachometers.
Ability to perform equipment maintenance and operating procedures.

Do you posses one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade.?
 Yes, I meet the above experience requirement AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade..
 No, I do not meet the above experience requirement AND / OR the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade..


6.
GRADE DETERMINATIONS. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, candidates must meet the following grade-determining criteria for placement at grade levels specified.

GS-11
Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
Examples of creditable include: Serve as a developmental Biomedical Equipment Support Specialist (BESS) performing increasingly more complex tasks designed to prepare them to work independently at the full performance level. Troubleshoot and perform planned maintenance on medical equipment. Developmental-level BESSs assist with incoming inspections and documentation. BESSs in this assignment receive increasingly less frequent supervision, direction, or guidance from more experienced staff members.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:
Knowledge of standards including National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Joint Commission (TJC), and the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation (AAMI) for safe operation of medical equipment and clinical systems.
Skill in using test and calibration equipment including digital multi-meters, electrical safety analyzers, defibrillator analyzers, patient simulators, manometers, tachometers, and Local Area Network (LAN) analyzers.
Skill in interpreting a variety of technical data including schematic drawings and wiring diagrams.
Skill in applying networking principles, such as Access Control List (ACL), Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), and Virtual Local Area Networks (VLAN).
Ability to perform advanced testing to troubleshoot medical equipment and clinical system interfaces.
Ability to maintain medical computers and software.
Ability to manage projects involving medical equipment and clinical systems.


Do you posses one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade.?
 Yes, I meet the above experience requirement AND the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade..
 No, I do not meet the above experience requirement AND/OR the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) required for the position and grade.


May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria).




 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙