Position Title
Assistant Inspector General for Management
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
OIG-12952782-26-SES-OM Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you meet one of the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibilities:
• Transfer or Reinstatement eligibles;
• Current Federal or former employees with career or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service that hold, or have held a career or career-conditional position at a lower grade level as the position being announced; or,
• Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) eligible
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status or a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. 

Failure to submit required documentation may result in loss of consideration for this eligibility.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
Thank you for your continued interest in employment with the Office of Inspector General. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.

For each of the following questions, please select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may only select one response for each question. If you feel that your education and/or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. This is a Department of Homeland Security job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application.


1.
A pre-employment drug screening is required. Are you willing to undergo a drug screen?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a male U.S. Citizen born after 31 December 1959, you are required to register with the Selective Service. Have you registered with the Selective Service? (Female applicants must select C.)
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable (I am either a female applicant, or male applicant born before 31 December 1959, or an applicant who meets exemptions under the Selective Service law)


3.
A comprehensive background investigation, including a check of your credit history, is required for this position. Are you willing to authorize the release of your consumer/credit reports to DHS/OIG in connection with your application for employment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee?

If yes, please submit a copy of your applicable SF-50, along with a statement that provides the following information regarding your most recent political appointment:
1) Position title
2) Type of appointment (Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES, or Presidential Appointee)
3) Agency
4) Beginning and ending dates of appointment
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙