Position Title
Market Compliance Specialist
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12996433 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


TTB ONLY
1.
Please choose one of the following so that we may determine your eligibility.
 I am a current permanent Department of Treasury employee with competitive status.
 I am a Department of Treasury employee serving on a Veterans' Recruitment Appointment (VRA)
 I am an individual eligible for the Deparment of Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP)
 I do not meet any of the above criteria.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-13 is one year of experience at the GS-12 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position, equipping the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as work experience:
- Interpreting and explaining TTB laws and regulations; OR
- Researching and analyzing compliance issues in a regulatory program area; OR
- Applying laws, regulations, and policies to prepare correspondence, reports, proposals or operating procedures that address compliance issues related to labeling, formulation, product safety, or marketplace activities; OR
- Making recommendations for program improvements to executives and management officials through written or oral presentations.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-12 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
Choose all of the statements that best describe your experience in planning and managing an inventory of projects or assignments.
 A. I have planned or managed an inventory of multiple projects or assignments.
 B. I have developed project plans and identified how the task will be completed.
 C. I have completed multiple assignments that met or exceeded established deadlines.
 D. I have successfully prioritized assignments and projects based on changing mission commitments.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.


4.
Choose the response that best describes your highest level of experience applying policies and procedures pertaining to TTB laws and regulations.
 I have used a variety of sources to research compliance issues and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. My experience includes assimilating, summarizing, and applying the results to make a determination of compliance with laws, regulations, and policies.
 I have experience researching and responding to compliance inquiries from the public, industry members, or trade associations and providing them with a determination or authoritative guidance on alcohol laws, regulations, and existing policies.
 I have experience researching and analyzing alcohol regulations, laws, policies, and program requirements in order to recommend new policies or revisions to existing policies, provide authoritative guidance to segments of the regulated industry, and generate reports, or other written materials.
 I have experience assisting others with researching applicable laws, regulations and policies from a variety of sources. My experience includes assimilating and summarizing information and making recommendations.
 I have experience researching internal handbooks, manuals, and other easily accessible guidance to provide general information on the organization's program requirements to co-workers and the public.
 I have experience participating in group assignments or projects that involved assisting others with researching laws, regulations and policies, and assimilating and summarizing information.
 I do not have experience in performing this task.


5.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


6.
Choose the type(s) of written products you have produced as a regular part of a job.
 A. Issue/position papers or summary reports on regulatory issues that included analysis and recommendations.
 B. Correspondence that explains regulatory requirements.
 C. Guidelines or procedural instructions for implementing new initiatives or systems.
 D. Reports and guidance documents that consolidate input from a number of different sources (including contradictory viewpoints).
 E. Presentation or briefing materials
 F. Organizational assessments
 G. None of the above.


7.
Please select all responses that describe your experience in locating and compiling information on regulatory program areas for reports and briefings. Check all that apply.
 A. Highlight useful information, suggest conclusions, and support decision making.
 B. Collect, compile, and retrieve information from various sources within an organization.
 C. Analyze and evaluate methods and techniques in order to conduct studies of a factual nature, extract pertinent information from a variety of informational sources, identify specific problems, make recommendations, and develop solutions to identified problems.
 D. None of the above.


8.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience with project management.
 I have planned, conducted, and coordinated various studies or projects involving regulatory program areas.
 I have participated as a member of a team in the planning, conducting, and coordinating of various studies or projects involving regulatory program areas.
 I have on occasion conducted a study or survey for the purpose of gathering statistics.
 None of the above.


9.
Choose the one statement below that most accurately describes your experience with analyses of compliance issues in labeling, advertising, or consumer protection.
 I have not performed this type of work.
 I have reviewed and analyzed applications or information in order to determine compliance with laws and regulations.
 I evaluate applications, advertisements, or marketplace activities, make routine decisions on compliance with laws and regulations, and communicate those decisions to stakeholders.
 I evaluate difficult or controversial issues, novel products or situations, make decisions on compliance with laws and regulations, and communicate the justification for those decisions to stakeholders.
 I can identify, recognize and evaluate issues, novel products or situations, make decisions on compliance with laws and regulations, and communicate the justification for those decisions to stakeholders. I have trained others in this work and my peers consult with me for assistance in performing these tasks.


10.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


11.
Please indicate which of the following items you have researched and analyzed in order to develop final written products.
 A. Laws or regulations
 B. Statistical data
 C. Advertising or marketing trends
 D. Policies
 E. Technical data
 F. Processes
 G. Program documents and/or standard operating procedures
 H. None of the above


12.
Which of the following reflects your highest level of experience drafting policies and procedures relevant to actual program operations?
 I have had authority to develop, review and modify policies and procedures.
 I have led a team responsible for developing, reviewing, modifying policies and procedures.
 I have participated in working groups as a subject matter expert on issues pertaining to policies and procedures that are relevant to program operations.
 I have advised senior management on policies and procedures.
 I have had experience complying with the policies and procedures.
 None of the above.


13.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience analyzing and evaluating market compliance situations, identifying problems and developing solutions.
 I have experience performing work that required the resolution of problems involving diverse or unique issues that have impact at a national level using little source material and pre-existing precedents.
 I have experience performing work that required the resolution of problems involving issues that impacted a segment of the industry using a wide range of source material and pre-existing precedents.
 I have experience performing work that required resolution of problems involving routine issues with impact on a segment of the industry using clear-cut guidelines and precedents that determine the most appropriate guideline to use.
 None of the above.


14.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in communicating orally.
 I have experience orally presenting ideas that involve the use of technical/specialized terminology that may be unfamiliar to the audience in a clear and concise manner to both internal and external managers and customers to obtain acceptance of proposed recommendations.
 I have experience providing oral presentations that involve the use of technical/specialized terminology that may be unfamiliar to the audience to present ideas or procedural information, or to obtain compliance with established policies and procedures.
 I have experience providing oral presentations that require some interpretation of source documents to give information to an audience and to respond to oral inquiries.
 None of the above.


15.
I have routinely and successfully applied the following interpersonal communication skills at work.
 A. Facilitated the resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties when cooperation was needed in order to complete my assigned work.
 B. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to a variety of customers.
 C. Diffused confrontational contact with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 D. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arose that caused shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 E. Persuaded others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques in order to improve operations.
 F. None of the above.


16.
Which statement best describes your experience with facilitating and conducting meetings with TTB officials and staff of various divisions?
 I have not completed this task.
 I have led small meetings with my immediate co-workers.
 I have led meetings discussing compliance issues with staff from other divisions.
 I have organized and led meetings discussing issues with division level supervisors.
 I have organized and led meetings discussing issues with executive level management.


17.
Which statement best describes your experience facilitating and/or conducting meetings with other agencies or bureaus?
 I have not completed this task.
 I have organized or led ad-hoc meetings or conference calls involving another foreign, federal, state, or local agency to discuss a single issue.
 I have organized and led meetings with other foreign, federal, state, or local agencies to discuss bureau policy and address issues.
 I have led and organized recurring meetings with other foreign, federal, state, or local agencies to discuss bureau policy and multiple issues.


18.
Select the response(s) that describe your experience communicating effectively orally and in writing in order to provide guidance and make recommendations.
 A. I have provided authoritative technical advice to managers, employees, and members of the general public.
 B. I have explained or justified decisions, conclusions, findings, and recommendations.
 C. I have made oral presentations of analysis, findings, and recommendations to key stakeholders.
 D. I have conveyed detailed technical information and rendered necessary advice.
 E. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙