Position Title
HR SPEC (RECRUITMENT & PLACEMENT/COMPENSATION) (T5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-12880031-AF-26-023 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Permanent full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Permanent full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Temporary Indefinite full-time Dual Status National Guard Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Indefinite full-time status with the state National Guard.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Respond to each of the following questions. For each question, choose the response that best represents your eligibility, employment and skills. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your uploaded resume, documents and information provided by your references.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position is open to current on board federal technician employed by the MN Army or Air National Guard. Are you a current on-board employee with the MN ARNG or ANG? An SF-50 MUST be provided with your application.

 Yes
 No


Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


2.
From the description below, choose the one statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of Human Resources Management, GS-0201-07. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)?
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-07) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc) and is described in detail in my resume. An example of creditable specialized experience includes work in administrative positions that manage, supervise, administer, advise on, or deliver human resources management products or services OR master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I do not have the specialized experience described above.


3.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of Human Resources Management, GS-0201-09. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application)?
To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization and is described in detail in my resume.
 A. I have at least one year of specialized experience which is equivalent to Federal experience at the next lower grade (GS-09) level or equivalent (grade level, pay schedule, pay band, etc) and is described in detail in my resume. An example of creditable specialized experience includes work in administrative positions that manage, supervise, administer, advise on, or deliver human resources management products or services OR a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I do not have the specialized experience described above.


INSTRUCTIONS: For each following question, please use the narrative text box to best describe your experience and/or training for that question.


4.
In detail, explain your Human Resources Management, GS-0201-07 level specialized experience work or equivalent in administrative positions such as managing, supervising, administering, advising on, or delivering human resources management products or services.


5.
In detail, explain your Human Resources Management, GS-0201-09 level specialized experience work or equivalent in administrative positions such as managing, supervising, administering, advising on, or delivering human resources management products or services.


6.
In detail, explain your ability to communicate clearly and effectively orally and in writing, using presentation and report formats.


7.
In detail, explain your ability to provide support for recruitment and placement, military technician compatibility, permanent change of station moves, pay setting, recruitment/retention/relocation (3R) incentives, advanced in-hire rates, and reduction-in-force actions.


8.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙