Position Title
Clinical Psychologist (Deputy Chief Psychologist)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
WXR-26-13055285 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


7.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


8.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



Applicants MUST meet the below-listed MINIMUM qualification requirement for this position. In the event you do not meet the requirement, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Satisfactory completion of all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.



1.
Do you meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above?
 Yes, I have satisfactorily completed all the requirements for a doctoral degree (Ph.D. or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology.
 No, I do not meet the minimum qualification requirement listed above.


NOTE: ALL applicants MUST submit legible transcripts as verification of educational requirement. Transcripts MUST be received in the announcing office by the closing date of the vacancy announcement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In addition to the minimum education requirement, you must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-12 grade level as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the experience requirements for the position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants applying for this position, MUST also possess the following Selective Placement Factor. In the event you do not possess the Selective Placement Factor, you will be found ineligible for the position.

Selective Factor:

Applicant must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to practice psychology at the doctoral level in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States (e.g., Puerto Rico), or the Disctrict of Columbia

Applicants must submit a copy of their license at the time you apply. The documentation provided MUST show the expiration date of the license.

Do you meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position?
 Yes, I meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position AND have uploaded my documentation.
 No, I do not meet the Selective Placement Factor for this position.


Assessment 2
This assessment measures the technical competencies required for the Deputy Chief Psychologist, Correctional Complex position. For each question, select the answer that best represents the most effective and appropriate approach. Only one answer per question will be scored.



1.
Dr. Martinez is working with an inmate who has been exhibiting erratic behavior, including poor impulse control, inconsistent performance on assigned tasks, and difficulty following institutional rules. Security staff have reported concerns about the inmate's ability to participate in educational programs. To make appropriate treatment and management recommendations, Dr. Martinez needs to conduct a comprehensive psychological evaluation to determine the underlying factors contributing to this behavior pattern.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate psychological assessment approach in this situation?

 Administer a single screening checklist to quickly identify any obvious mental health concerns, document the results in a brief memo to custody staff, and monitor the inmate's behavior over the next 30 days to see if patterns emerge before making any formal recommendations.
 Conduct a comprehensive assessment battery including the WAIS to evaluate cognitive functioning and the MMPI-2 to assess personality factors, integrate the results with clinical interview data, and prepare a detailed psychological report that includes diagnostic impressions and specific recommendations for treatment and institutional management.
 Review the inmate's institutional file and previous psychological records if available, meet briefly with the inmate to gather basic background information, complete a diagnostic checklist based on observed symptoms, and provide preliminary impressions to the treatment team for further discussion.
 Schedule a clinical interview with the inmate to gather relevant history and current concerns, observe the inmate's presentation and behavior during the interview, consult with custody staff about their specific concerns, and document findings with general recommendations for continued monitoring.
 None of the above.


2.
An inmate has been diagnosed with major depressive disorder with suicidal ideation and co-occurring anger management issues. The inmate has a history of impulsive behavior and interpersonal conflicts with other inmates. During the initial clinical interview, the inmate expressed feelings of hopelessness and revealed past trauma. The treatment team is looking to you to develop a comprehensive treatment recommendation that addresses both the immediate safety concerns and the underlying mental health issues.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate treatment intervention recommendation approach in this situation?

 Recommend immediate placement in a suicide watch housing unit, document the safety concerns, and suggest that the inmate be re-evaluated in one week to determine if the crisis has stabilized before considering any additional therapeutic interventions or treatment modalities.
 Recommend a comprehensive treatment plan that includes cognitive-behavioral therapy to address the depression and anger management issues, implement suicide prevention protocols with regular monitoring, consider referral for psychiatric evaluation for possible psychotropic medication, and incorporate problem-solving techniques and group counseling components into the ongoing treatment approach.
 Under consultation with the Chief Psychologist, recommend that the inmate participate in anger management group sessions and receive individual counseling focused on behavioral techniques, while also documenting the need for continued assessment of suicidal ideation and requesting input from other treatment team members on additional interventions.
 Review the inmate's case file and previous treatment history, observe the inmate during structured clinical interviews over multiple sessions, consult with psychiatric staff about medication options, and prepare preliminary treatment recommendations based on evidence-based practices for depression and anger issues to present at the next treatment team meeting.
 None of the above.


3.
You are facilitating a cognitive-behavioral therapy group for inmates with anxiety and depression. During today's session, one group member becomes increasingly agitated when discussing his upcoming parole hearing, stating he feels overwhelmed and worthless. Two other group members with similar backgrounds begin sharing their own fears about reentry into society. You recognize this as a critical therapeutic opportunity to address cognitive distortions and maladaptive thinking patterns while maintaining group cohesion and addressing multiple clients' needs simultaneously.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate psychotherapy approach in this situation?

 Implement cognitive-behavioral interventions by helping the agitated inmate identify and challenge his negative automatic thoughts about worthlessness, guide the group in exploring their cognitive distortions related to reentry fears, facilitate discussion among members to develop coping strategies and realistic thinking patterns, and document specific measurable treatment goals for each participant in their individual treatment plans based on the session content.
 Co-facilitate the remainder of the group session by asking a psychology intern to help manage the discussion while you work individually with the most agitated inmate, use basic cognitive-behavioral techniques to address the immediate concerns, and schedule follow-up individual sessions with the inmates who expressed reentry fears to provide additional support.
 Conduct individual brief interventions with the agitated inmate using cognitive-behavioral techniques to address his immediate distress about the parole hearing, then redirect the group discussion to a less emotionally charged topic from the planned curriculum to maintain group stability, and make notes about the three inmates' expressed concerns for discussion in supervision.
 Use psycho-educational techniques to teach the entire group about cognitive distortions and anxiety management, facilitate a group discussion where members can share their experiences and concerns about parole and reentry, provide general coping strategies that could be helpful for managing stress, and document the session content in group therapy notes.
 None of the above.


4.
As Deputy Chief Psychologist, you supervise five staff psychologists and three psychology interns. You have noticed that one of your staff psychologists, Dr. Johnson, has been submitting psychological reports that lack sufficient clinical detail and do not consistently follow BOP formatting guidelines. While Dr. Johnson is clinically competent in direct patient care, the quality issues in documentation could impact continuity of care and compliance with agency standards. Additionally, Dr. Johnson has expressed interest in eventually moving into a leadership role. You need to address the performance issue while also supporting this employee's professional development goals.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate supervisory approach in this situation?

 Review several of Dr. Johnson's psychological reports in detail to identify specific areas needing improvement, provide direct feedback with concrete examples of deficiencies and model reports that meet standards, establish clear expectations for report quality aligned with BOP policy requirements, develop a performance improvement plan with measurable objectives and timelines, assign Dr. Johnson to participate in the agency's management mentoring program to support leadership development goals, and schedule regular follow-up meetings to review progress and ensure compliance with established standards.
 Lead a staff meeting where you present general guidelines about psychological report writing and BOP documentation standards without singling out any individual staff member, distribute sample reports that demonstrate best practices, announce that you will be conducting random quality reviews of all staff's work going forward, and encourage anyone interested in leadership roles to let you know so you can provide guidance.
 Discuss the report quality issues with Dr. Johnson in general terms, suggest that the psychologist review the BOP policy manual for guidance on documentation standards, recommend that Dr. Johnson consult with more experienced colleagues for tips on report writing, and advise that demonstrating strong performance in all areas including documentation will be important for future advancement opportunities.
 Assign Dr. Johnson to work collaboratively with a senior psychologist on a quality improvement project focused on enhancing documentation practices across the psychology department, ask Dr. Johnson to complete the next several reports and submit them to you for review before finalizing, provide feedback on areas for improvement, and create opportunities for Dr. Johnson to lead smaller projects or work groups to develop leadership skills while addressing the performance concern.
 None of the above.


5.
You are on duty when security staff radio that an inmate in the Special Housing Unit is actively attempting suicide by hanging. Officers have cut the inmate down and medical staff are responding to provide emergency care. The inmate regains consciousness and becomes combative, threatening to harm himself again and yelling threats at staff. Three other inmates in nearby cells are becoming increasingly agitated by the commotion, with one inmate also beginning to express suicidal statements. The Warden has been notified and security is requesting your immediate presence to manage the psychological crisis and provide guidance on how to handle the situation safely while addressing the mental health needs of multiple inmates.

Which action represents the most effective and appropriate crisis response approach in this situation?

 Respond immediately to the Special Housing Unit, conduct crisis intervention with the primary inmate by using de-escalation techniques to calm him and assess his current mental state and immediate suicide risk, consult with security staff about appropriate housing placement and monitoring protocols to ensure safety, evaluate the other agitated inmates to determine their risk levels, provide staff with specific behavioral management strategies for dealing with the inmates' disruptive behavior and continued threats, and document all interventions and recommendations for continued crisis management and follow-up treatment.
 Arrive at the scene promptly and observe the medical staff providing emergency care, wait until the primary inmate has been medically cleared and the situation has stabilized somewhat, conduct individual clinical interviews with each of the inmates involved to assess their mental health needs, consult with the Chief Psychologist about appropriate next steps, and prepare detailed psychological reports documenting the crisis event and clinical impressions for each inmate.
 Respond to the crisis situation and work with security to ensure the scene is safe, use your clinical skills to help calm the combative inmate by speaking to him from outside the cell, coordinate with medical staff about whether psychiatric medication might be appropriate for immediate crisis stabilization, conduct suicide risk assessments with both the primary inmate and the other inmate expressing suicidal statements once the situation permits, and recommend appropriate monitoring levels.
 Participate in the emergency response as part of the institution's crisis team, assist security and medical staff in managing the emotionally distraught inmates by providing general guidance on mental health considerations, help prevent the crisis situation from escalating further by maintaining a calm presence, and follow up later in the day to conduct more thorough psychological evaluations with the inmates involved in the incident.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙