Position Title
Health Technician (Audiology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSZ-12857263-26-TEB Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Dec 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Health Technician (Audiology) position with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following are the requirements for appointment as a Health Technician (Audiology) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA HTs in the General Schedule (GS)-640 series. Please select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position.


1.
Individuals must meet at least one of the requirements below: Experience and Education. (1) Experience. Six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. OR (2) Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelor's degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position. OR (3) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. An example of a combination of experience/education is three months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry

 Experience. Experience. Six months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled.
 Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school leading to an associate degree or a bachelors degree with at least 12 semester hours in courses related to the position
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. An example of a combination of experience/education is three months of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled and one year above high school with a minimum of 6 semester hours related to the health care industry.
 Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs
 I do not meet this requirement.


2.
NARRATIVE: Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your education.

Name of Institution
City and State
Level of Education (diploma, ASN, BSN, MSN, etc.)
Month and Year conferred



CREDITABLE EXPERIENCE. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics (also referred to as "clinical competencies") associated with current professional Health Technician (Audiology) practice. Evidence of such experience includes experience in private practice, U. S. military services, local/state/federal health care or educational facilities. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active professional practice which may be paid or non-paid employment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS 05: Experience or Education: Experience. One year of experience comparable to the next lower level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities related to the duties of the position to be filled. OR (2) Education. Successful completion of four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with at least 24 semester hours in courses related to the position or a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to the functions of the occupation. Do you meet this requirement to be considered for the GS-5 LEVEL?

 Yes
 No


4.
GS 05: Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, Abilities. In addition to meeting the experience or educational requirements for this grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of anatomy of the head and neck. (b) Ability to communicate clearly orally and in writing. (c) Knowledge of basic hearing assistive technologies. (d) Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines. (e) Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories. (f) Skill in using basic computer software such as email, spreadsheet and word processing. Do you meet this requirement to be considered for the GS-5 LEVEL?

 Yes
 No


5.
GS 06: Experience. Completion of one year of progressive experience and/or experience equivalent to the next lower grade level directly related to the position being filled? Assignment. This is a developmental position. The HTASLP at this level works independently under the direction of a licensed audiologist or SLP. Assignments associated with this position include, but are not limited to answering and screening calls from patients regarding audiology and/or speech-language pathology needs; assisting the audiologist and/or SLP with patient assessment and treatment; supporting walk-in appointments; processing incoming devices from patients with concerns related to their hearing aids, hearing assistive technology or cognitive-communication devices; and preparing and charging, if required, assistive devices for delivery. The health technician adheres to the audiology and speech language pathology clinic policy and standard operating procedures for infection control and cleaning, sterilization and disposition RME including endoscopes and radiation safety. The health technician maintains a comprehensive supply and equipment tracking system to include monitoring stock of RME and consumable items; ensuring proper inventory levels to complete the daily tasks; prioritizing the acquisition of all supplies and equipment with regard to date of expiration; maintaining proper levels of mailing and shipping supplies; preparing mailing/shipping requests for items including but not limited to hearing aid and hearing assistive technology repairs, ear mold orders and return for credit items; and maintaining loaner hearing aid inventory.

 YES
 NO


6.
GS-06; Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs: (a) Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy. (b) Knowledge of hearing physiology and function to educate patients and families. (c) Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software. (d) Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aid, hearing assistive technology and patient care, consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist. (e) Ability to prepare patients for testing procedures. (f) Ability to document and code patient procedures. Do you meet the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to perform at the GS-6 level?

 Yes
 No


Transcript Reminder - Due to the positive education requirement unofficial transcripts or an appropriate course listing must be submitted with your application. Applications will not be considered without appropriate transcripts.


Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Employer name and complete address; Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); and Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙