Position Title
Supervisory Criminal Investigator
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-13047411-26-FPS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters in the Competitive Service (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard)? who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard) who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


2.
After Department of Homeland Security Headquarters completes its hiring, the resumes of the remaining candidates referred for selection consideration may be shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you may continue to explore other job opportunity announcements. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Criminal Investigator, GS-1811-14 position with Department of Homeland Security, Federal Protective Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Criminal Investigator at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the federal service which includes: Analyzing and evaluating regional criminal investigative programs, policies, procedures to ensure effectiveness of operations; Providing technical advice and guidance to criminal investigators and staff regarding critical operations related to criminal investigative programs; Leading criminal investigations and modifying investigative plans to address criminal activity or potential threats; and Leading and directing the work of subordinate staff responsible for criminal investigations(i.e. assigning work, developing performance standards, making authoritative decisions regarding personnel actions, etc.)
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙