Position Title
Recreation Specialist (Deployed Forces)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12860027 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 05, 2026 to Jan 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Years of experience planning fitness and recreation programing.
 5+ years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 5+ years of documented working experience in the civilian Recreation Program
 3 to 5 years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 3 to 5 years of documented working experience in a civilian Recreation Program
 2 to 3 years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 2 to 3 years of documented working experience in a civilian Recreation Program
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience in a DoD Recreation Program
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience in a civilian Program
 Less than 1 year documented working experience in either the DoD or civilian Recreation Program or no documented working experience


2.
Years of experience ordering fitness and recreation equipment suitable for shipboard use.
 3+ years of documented working experience
 1 - 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year of experience or no documented working experience


3.
Years of experience managing a recreation or fitness program budget.
 3+ years of documented working experience
 1 - 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year of experience or no documented worked experience


4.
Years of experience managing and controlling warehouse receipt and issuance of supplies and equipment.
 3+ years of documented working experience
 1 to 2 years of documented working experience
 Less than 1 year of experience or no documented working experience


5.
Do you have a current unexpired driver's license?
 Yes I have an unexpired driver's license
 No I do not have an unexpired driver's license


6.
A four-year degree from an accredited college or university with a major study appropriate to the field of recreation administration of physical education is preferred but can be substituted for experience or a combination of experience and education that provides the knowledge of the goals, principles, methods, and techniques of the recreation programs and an understanding of the interests of individuals or groups. (for points to apply, you must upload a copy of your degree or official transcripts)
 Yes, I have a four-year degree with a major study in the field of recreation administration of physical education.
 Yes, I have a combination of some education in the field of recreation administration of physical education as well as documentation of experience in the field.
 No, I do not have a combination of education but have documented experience in the field of recreation administration of physical education.
 No, I do not meet the education and/or experience required for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙