Position Title
Information Technology Cybersecurity Specialist (CUSTSPT)
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-13026060-WE-NL-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your experience and/or education which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Position IT Cybersecurity Specialist (CUSTSPT) GS-2210-13.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service to include: providing internal technical support or oversight to create or update software applications aimed at improving customer interfaces across departments, such as coordinating with stakeholders to gather requirements, supporting configuration changes, or validating application functionality to meet user needs; developing and delivering technical training to educate others or meet customer needs, such as creating training materials or job aids, conducting in-person or virtual training sessions, or providing follow-up support to ensure user understanding of systems or processes; developing trend analyses and impact reports related to IT services, LMS or customer support, such as reviewing performance or usage data, identifying patterns or emerging issues, preparing summary reports, or presenting findings and recommendations to management; developing, updating, and maintaining standard operating procedures, technical documentation, or process guidance for IT or LMS operations, such as drafting or revising SOPs, documenting workflows, or coordinating reviews and approvals with stakeholders; understanding and applying an organization’s information classification program and procedures for responding to information compromise, such as correctly handling information according to its classification, following established reporting and escalation protocols, or supporting containment and remediation activities in coordination with appropriate offices.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.
 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙