Position Title
Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12848153 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Please select your education and experience.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral health, social science or criminal justice AND two (4) years of specialized experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral health or social sciences field. In addition, I have at least four (4) years' experience in victim assistance /advocacy in the military or civilian sector.
 I have a combination of education and 4 years of specialized experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral health or social sciences that is equivalent to a major in the field. In addition, I have at least four (4) years' experience in victim assistance /advocacy in the military or civilian sector.
 I have four (4) years of appropriate experience where I acquired the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral/social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. In addition, I have at least four (4) years' experience in victim assistance /advocacy in the military or civilian sector.
 I do not have the education and experience described above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims?
 I have over 5 years of experience working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims as a primary duty.
 I have more than 3-5 years of experience working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims as a primary duty.
 I have less than 3 years of experience working with military, civilian, medical, social service, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims as a primary duty.
 I have some experience as a volunteer or collateral duty working with either military or civilian: medical, social services, law enforcement and legal personnel on behalf of victims.
 I do not have the experience described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have with providing sexual assault prevention response training and briefings?
 I have over 5 years of experience in providing trainings or briefings on sexual assault to a military audience.
 I have 3-5 years of experience in providing trainings or briefings on sexual assault to a military or civilian audience.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in providing trainings or briefings on sexual assault to a military or civilian audience.
 I do not have the experience described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have as a victim advocate in sexual assault prevention response program?
 I have over 3 years of experience, as described above, providing service to DoD sexual assault victims within the last 7 years.
 I have 3 years of experience, as described above, providing service to military or civilian victims of sexual assault and/or other crimes.
 I have less than 3 years of experience, as described above, providing service to military or civilian victims of sexual assault and/or other crimes.
 I do not have the experience described above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have entering information in a data base or case management system? (And it is reflected in my resume.)
 I have 3+ years of experience utilizing or have utilized the Defense Sexual Assault Incident Database (DSAID).
 I have 1 to 3 years currently enter case information in a database in a civilian agency.
 I have less than 1 year entering information in a database in the past but not currently.
 I do not have the experience described above.


6.
I have uploaded the proof of education, training and credentials that are referenced in my resume. I understand that if I do not upload verification of education, training and credentials, I may not be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙