Position Title
PROGRAM MANAGER
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12856061-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 19, 2025 to Jan 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Defense Employees (Non-Army)

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

•  U.S. Navy
•  U.S. Marine Corps
•  Department of the Air Force
•  Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are eligible to apply as a Current Department of Defense Employee (Non-Army)?
 Yes
 No


4.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


8.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


10.
Reinstatement

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:
Are a former Federal employee who previously attained career status (identified as Tenure I (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal employee with veterans' preference who previously attained career-conditional status (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action); OR
Are a former Federal career-conditional employee (identified as Tenure II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) of your last SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action) without veterans' preference who separated from Government service within the past three years.
This eligibility also covers current permanent Federal employees when the area of consideration ("Who May Apply") does not include an option to apply as a current Federal employee. To verify your eligibility, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 indicating Tenure I or II (block 24) and Competitive Service (block 34) with your completed application.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 with your completed application.

Are you eligible for Reinstatement?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Program Manager GS-0340-15 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Manager position at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 level in the Federal Service which includes at least 3 of the 4 following duties: 1)Negotiating resolutions to complex civil works, military or environmental projects that keep projects moving forward; OR 2) Developing civil works, military or environmental programs within funding, manpower or other resources; OR 3) Ensuring policies conform to existing precedents and practices issued by higher authority within the military or civil works programs; OR 4) Compiling necessary data or information needed to support the environment in lock and dam construction, dam safety, environmental restoration, or river stabilization projects etc.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has five response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
- There are no right or wrong answers.
- Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
- This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.

Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
As Deputy for Programs and Project Management, you discover that your division needs additional project managers to handle an increased workload of military construction projects, but your current budget allocation is already stretched thin. The district commander has emphasized the importance of meeting all project deadlines while maintaining fiscal responsibility. How do you approach building the workforce to address this challenge?

 Immediately request additional funding for new hires by demonstrating the critical nature of upcoming projects and the risk of delays, while exploring short-term contractor support to bridge immediate gaps.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of current workload distribution and skill gaps, then develop a phased staffing plan that includes cross-training existing staff, strategic use of temporary assignments, and a business case for additional permanent positions tied to projected revenue from new projects.
 Focus primarily on maximizing overtime usage among current staff to meet immediate deadlines, then address long-term staffing needs through the next budget cycle planning process.
 Hire temporary contractors immediately to address the workload without conducting a formal analysis, since project deadlines cannot be compromised regardless of budget constraints.
 Review current organizational structure and identify opportunities to redistribute responsibilities among existing staff, while simultaneously preparing a detailed justification for additional positions based on workload metrics and project delivery requirements.


2.
You are overseeing a major flood control project that is approaching a critical milestone. During your quality review, you discover that while the engineering specifications are being met, the construction timeline is slipping due to coordination issues between the engineering and construction teams. The project sponsor is expecting an update next week. How do you address this quality assurance challenge?

 Document the coordination issues for lessons learned and inform the sponsor of the delay, emphasizing that quality standards are being maintained even though the schedule may need adjustment.
 Conduct a thorough analysis of the coordination breakdown, implement process improvements to prevent future issues, and work with team leads to develop a recovery plan that maintains quality standards while addressing schedule concerns.
 Implement immediate corrective measures by facilitating direct communication between engineering and construction teams, establish daily coordination meetings, and develop a revised timeline with specific accountability measures while preparing a transparent status report for the sponsor.
 Direct the construction team to proceed without waiting for all engineering approvals to make up time, since the specifications are already established and minor adjustments can be addressed later.
 Focus on accelerating the construction phase by reallocating resources and extending work hours, while ensuring engineering reviews are streamlined to reduce approval delays and meet the original timeline.


3.
A new federal directive has been issued requiring enhanced environmental compliance measures for all ongoing construction projects. This directive will impact three major projects in your portfolio that are currently in different phases of completion. The directive implementation deadline is in 60 days, and project sponsors are concerned about potential delays and cost increases. How do you evaluate and respond to this policy change?

 Convene a cross-functional team to analyze the directive's requirements, prioritize projects based on their phase and risk level, and develop a district-wide implementation strategy that minimizes disruption while ensuring full compliance.
 Continue current project activities unchanged while challenging the directive through official channels, since stopping work would cause unacceptable delays and cost overruns for sponsors.
 Review the directive thoroughly and request clarification from higher headquarters on specific requirements, while temporarily slowing project activities in potentially affected areas until implementation guidance is finalized.
 Systematically assess each project's current compliance status, identify specific gaps and requirements, develop project-specific implementation plans with cost and schedule impacts, and proactively communicate with sponsors about necessary adjustments and mitigation strategies.
 Focus on completing projects that are nearest to completion before the directive takes effect, while developing compliance plans for remaining projects that may require schedule extensions.


4.
Your district's civil works program is experiencing a pattern of cost overruns across multiple projects, with three major civil works projects exceeding their budgets by 15-20%. Initial analysis suggests the issues stem from a combination of scope creep, inadequate initial cost estimates, and change order management. The division commander has requested your analysis and recommendations. How do you approach developing solutions to these program issues?

 Focus on implementing immediate cost control measures for ongoing projects, establish stricter approval processes for change orders, and develop enhanced project monitoring procedures to prevent future overruns.
 Review historical project data to identify trends, increase oversight of project managers, and require more frequent cost reporting to catch deviations earlier in the project lifecycle.
 Conduct a comprehensive root cause analysis across all affected projects, identify systemic issues in estimation and change management processes, develop standardized procedures for scope control and cost management, and implement enhanced oversight mechanisms with clear accountability measures.
 Analyze each project individually to identify specific deviation causes, benchmark against industry standards for similar projects, and develop targeted corrective actions that address both immediate cost control and long-term process improvements.
 Attribute the overruns to external factors beyond district control and recommend requesting additional funding from sponsors while maintaining current project management practices.


5.
A controversial technical issue has emerged regarding the foundation design for a new military hospital project. The original geotechnical analysis recommended deep foundations, but recent soil testing suggests alternative shallow foundation options that could save $2 million and reduce construction time by three months. However, the design team is split on the approach, and the military customer is concerned about long-term structural integrity. How do you resolve this technical controversy?

 Support the original deep foundation design since it was based on the initial analysis and represents the more conservative approach, while documenting the alternative option for potential future value engineering consideration.
 Direct the design team to conduct additional geotechnical analysis and structural modeling for both options, engage with the customer to understand their risk tolerance and priorities, and base the decision on comprehensive technical data and stakeholder input.
 Convene an independent technical review panel with subject matter experts, require comprehensive risk assessments for both foundation options, facilitate stakeholder discussions to evaluate trade-offs, and make a decision based on technical merit, risk tolerance, and customer requirements.
 Require the design team to present detailed technical justifications for both approaches, consult with district technical experts and higher headquarters for guidance, and select the option that best balances cost, schedule, and technical requirements.
 Choose the shallow foundation option immediately due to the significant cost and schedule savings, since the recent soil testing provides adequate justification for the design change.


6.
You are directing the preparation of a critical feasibility study report for a major flood risk reduction project that will be reviewed by the Assistant Secretary of the Army. The initial draft from your engineering team contains solid technical analysis but lacks clear executive-level summaries and does not adequately address economic and environmental trade-offs that you know are priorities for senior leadership. The report deadline is in two weeks. How do you ensure the report meets senior leader requirements?

 Work directly with the engineering team to restructure the report format for senior leader consumption, supplement technical analysis with policy and economic implications, and conduct thorough reviews to ensure all critical decision factors are clearly presented.
 Focus on improving the technical accuracy and completeness of the current draft, add summary sections as time permits, and rely on the briefing presentation to address policy and economic considerations not fully covered in the written report.
 Provide specific guidance to the team on senior leader expectations, require development of executive summaries with clear recommendations, ensure comprehensive analysis of alternatives addresses economic and environmental considerations, and establish a structured review process with multiple checkpoints before final submission.
 Request the team to add executive summaries and policy implications sections, provide examples of successful reports from similar projects, and schedule additional review sessions to refine the presentation of technical findings.
 Submit the current technical draft with minimal changes since the engineering analysis is sound, and assume senior leaders will focus primarily on the technical merits rather than presentation format.


7.
You are evaluating progress on a complex dam safety modification project that involves both design and construction phases running concurrently. The design team reports they are 70% complete and on schedule, while the construction team reports 45% completion but is three weeks behind schedule due to unexpected rock conditions. The overall project completion date is critical for flood season preparation. How do you evaluate and address this progress situation?

 Focus on resolving the construction delays by bringing in additional resources and expertise for the rock conditions, while ensuring design completion stays on track to support the revised construction schedule.
 Direct the construction team to work around the rock conditions using alternative methods without design modifications, since the three-week delay cannot be accommodated given the flood season deadline.
 Analyze the interdependencies between design and construction activities, determine which design elements can be accelerated to support construction recovery, and work with both teams to develop parallel work strategies that optimize the remaining schedule.
 Accept the construction delay as unavoidable due to unforeseen conditions, adjust the overall project schedule accordingly, and communicate the impact to stakeholders while maintaining current work approaches.
 Conduct detailed analysis of both design and construction progress against critical path activities, assess the impact of construction delays on overall project completion, evaluate options for schedule recovery including design modifications or construction methodology changes, and develop an integrated recovery plan with stakeholder input.


8.
Your project managers have submitted their annual goals and objectives for the upcoming fiscal year. While reviewing them, you notice that the short-term goals focus heavily on individual project completion but don't adequately address the district's strategic priorities for workforce development, technology modernization, and partnership building. The long-range goals vary significantly in ambition and measurability across different project areas. How do you address this misalignment with organizational direction?

 Accept the project-focused goals as appropriate for operational managers while separately developing division-level goals that address the broader organizational priorities and strategic direction.
 Provide clear guidance on district strategic priorities, require project managers to revise their goals to include specific contributions to organizational objectives, establish consistent metrics and timelines across all areas, and create integration mechanisms to ensure collective goals support overall district direction.
 Supplement the existing project-focused goals with additional organizational objectives, provide training on strategic planning and goal development, and require quarterly reviews to ensure alignment with district direction.
 Approve the submitted goals as written since project completion is the primary responsibility of project managers, and address strategic priorities through separate organizational initiatives.
 Work with individual project managers to align their goals with district priorities, provide examples of how project-level activities can support broader organizational objectives, and establish regular review processes to monitor progress toward both project and strategic goals.


9.
A critical military construction project is facing a funding shortfall of $3.5 million due to higher than expected material costs and design changes requested by the customer. The project is 60% complete, and stopping work would result in significant additional costs and delays. You need to coordinate with multiple organizational leaders including the district commander, division headquarters, and the military customer to resolve this funding issue. How do you approach this coordination challenge?

 Prepare a comprehensive analysis of funding options including reprogramming possibilities, scope adjustments, and phased completion strategies, then facilitate coordinated discussions with all stakeholders to develop a solution that balances project needs, regulatory requirements, and organizational priorities.
 Present the funding shortfall to all stakeholders with a recommendation to request emergency funding, while exploring options to reduce project scope to match available resources.
 Develop multiple funding scenarios with associated risks and benefits, coordinate with district leadership to determine preferred approaches, and work with division headquarters and the customer to negotiate a mutually acceptable resolution.
 Continue project work while coordinating with organizational leaders to secure additional funding, since stopping work would be more costly than temporarily exceeding the budget.
 Focus on identifying immediate funding sources within existing district allocations, coordinate with the customer to prioritize essential project elements, and work with division headquarters to request additional funding authorization.


10.
You are reviewing a major environmental restoration project that is experiencing challenges in all three areas: scope creep due to additional contamination discovered during excavation, schedule delays due to weather and permitting issues, and quality concerns regarding the effectiveness of the selected remediation technology. The customer is expressing frustration with project performance and threatening to seek alternative solutions. How do you address these multiple issues to ensure customer expectations are met?

 Work with the customer to reset expectations based on the discovered conditions, adjust the project scope and schedule accordingly, and implement additional quality control measures for remaining work.
 Prioritize the most critical issues based on customer impact, develop specific action plans for scope management, schedule recovery, and quality assurance, and implement regular customer coordination meetings to ensure transparency and alignment.
 Conduct a comprehensive project review to assess the full scope of issues, engage directly with the customer to understand their priorities and concerns, develop an integrated corrective action plan that addresses scope, schedule, and quality issues, and establish enhanced communication and oversight protocols.
 Focus on resolving the quality issues first since they affect project effectiveness, then address scope and schedule concerns through revised project planning and resource allocation.
 Accelerate project completion by accepting the current scope changes and working around quality concerns, since customer satisfaction depends primarily on finishing the project quickly.


11.
You are tasked with developing operational plans for a large inter-agency environmental restoration program involving the Corps of Engineers, EPA, state environmental agencies, and local municipalities. The program includes multiple contaminated sites across different jurisdictions with varying technical requirements, regulatory frameworks, and community concerns. Resource coordination is complex due to different agency capabilities, funding cycles, and priorities. How do you develop effective operational plans for this inter-agency program?

 Conduct comprehensive stakeholder analysis to understand each agency's requirements and capabilities, develop phased implementation plans that optimize resource utilization across agencies, and establish regular coordination mechanisms to ensure effective collaboration.
 Focus on developing plans for Corps-led activities while establishing liaison relationships with other agencies to coordinate their independent efforts and share information as needed.
 Create detailed resource allocation plans based on technical requirements for each site, establish lead agency responsibilities for different aspects of the program, and develop coordination protocols for sharing resources and information.
 Establish a formal inter-agency coordination structure with clear roles and responsibilities, develop integrated resource management plans that account for each agency's capabilities and constraints, create standardized procedures for communication and decision-making, and implement performance metrics that align with all agencies' objectives.
 Develop separate operational plans for each agency's responsibilities and rely on existing inter-agency agreements to coordinate resource sharing and program execution.


12.
A major levee construction project is not meeting agreed-upon objectives due to unique site conditions that weren't fully anticipated during planning. Standard construction practices for similar projects are proving inadequate for the challenging foundation conditions and environmental constraints at this location. The project is falling behind schedule and over budget, requiring significant modifications to standard approaches. How do you formulate appropriate modifications to address these compliance issues?

 Document the unique site conditions as justification for modified approaches, implement available alternative construction methods, and adjust project timelines and budgets to reflect the challenging conditions.
 Assemble a technical review team to evaluate current practices against site conditions, develop alternative approaches based on industry best practices for similar challenging conditions, and create project-specific procedures that ensure compliance with objectives.
 Continue using standard practices with minor adjustments while requesting approval to modify project objectives to match what can be achieved with conventional approaches.
 Conduct thorough analysis of site-specific challenges and their impact on standard practices, engage technical experts to develop innovative solutions, create modified procedures that address unique conditions while maintaining safety and quality standards, and establish approval processes for implementing non-standard approaches.
 Modify existing procedures to address the most critical site-specific issues, implement enhanced monitoring and quality control measures, and adjust project objectives where necessary to accommodate site constraints.


13.
You are directing resource allocation across five major projects in your portfolio, each at different phases and with competing priorities. A critical military project needs additional engineering resources to meet an accelerated deadline, while two civil works projects are requesting additional funding for scope changes, and an environmental project requires specialized equipment that is currently allocated to another project. All projects have valid justifications for their resource requests. How do you direct resource allocation to ensure objectives are effectively met?

 Assess the urgency and impact of each resource request against project objectives, identify opportunities for resource sharing or reallocation between projects, and make allocation decisions based on mission priorities and regulatory compliance requirements.
 Maintain current resource allocations to avoid disrupting ongoing work, and advise project managers to work within existing resources while exploring alternative approaches to meet their objectives.
 Prioritize the military project due to its accelerated timeline, evaluate options for meeting civil works scope changes within existing allocations, and develop a schedule for rotating specialized equipment between projects.
 Conduct comprehensive analysis of each project's critical path and resource requirements, evaluate the impact of different allocation scenarios on overall portfolio objectives, prioritize based on mission criticality and regulatory requirements, and develop a resource allocation plan that optimizes overall portfolio performance while maintaining compliance.
 Allocate resources based on current project phase and immediate needs, request additional resources from higher headquarters to address competing demands, and adjust project schedules as necessary to accommodate resource constraints.


14.
You are overseeing the preparation of your district's annual budget and workload forecast, which must account for ongoing projects, anticipated new work, and potential changes in funding levels. The data preparation involves input from multiple divisions, coordination with sponsors and customers, and analysis of historical trends and future projections. Some divisions are providing overly optimistic projections while others are being overly conservative, and there are discrepancies in cost estimation methodologies. How do you oversee this preparation to ensure accurate and reliable budget data?

 Work with each division to understand their forecasting approaches, identify and address obvious discrepancies, and develop consolidated projections that balance optimistic and conservative estimates.
 Establish standardized data collection and analysis procedures across all divisions, implement validation processes to verify projections against historical performance and market conditions, facilitate cross-divisional reviews to identify and resolve discrepancies, and create integrated forecasting models that account for various scenarios and risk factors.
 Use previous year's data as the baseline and adjust for known changes, since detailed forecasting is too uncertain and time-consuming given the variability in project funding and execution.
 Accept divisional inputs as provided while noting discrepancies for senior leadership consideration, focus on ensuring data completeness and timely submission, and rely on historical adjustments to account for forecasting variations.
 Provide clear guidance on forecasting methodologies and assumptions, require divisions to justify their projections with supporting data, implement review processes to ensure consistency and accuracy, and develop contingency scenarios for different funding levels.


15.
Your district is consistently experiencing cost overruns across multiple project types, and analysis indicates the organization lacks adequate resources in critical areas including cost estimating, project controls, and quality assurance. However, hiring additional permanent staff is not feasible due to budget constraints and uncertain future workload. You need to identify means to help the organization execute projects within approved costs while ensuring adequate resources. How do you address this organizational challenge?

 Accept that some cost overruns are inevitable given resource constraints and focus on minimizing them through better project selection and more conservative cost estimates.
 Focus on improving existing processes and procedures to maximize efficiency of current resources, provide targeted training in cost control and project management, and establish stricter oversight and approval processes for project expenditures.
 Develop a comprehensive resource strategy that includes cross-training existing staff in critical skills, establishing partnerships with other districts for resource sharing, implementing improved project control systems and processes, and creating a mix of temporary assignments, contractor support, and technology solutions to address resource gaps.
 Conduct detailed analysis of resource gaps and their impact on cost performance, develop training programs to enhance existing staff capabilities, explore inter-agency agreements for specialized support, and implement enhanced project monitoring and control procedures.
 Request temporary funding for additional contractor support in critical areas, implement more frequent cost monitoring and reporting, and adjust project scopes where necessary to match available resources.


16.
You need to establish comprehensive criteria for evaluating the execution and performance of your district's diverse portfolio of civil works, military construction, and environmental projects. Current evaluation methods are inconsistent across project types and don't provide adequate information for organizational learning and improvement. Senior leadership wants standardized metrics that enable fair comparison and support data-driven decision making. How do you establish effective evaluation criteria?

 Use existing project reporting requirements as evaluation criteria since they already capture essential performance information, and supplement with customer feedback surveys to assess satisfaction levels.
 Develop a balanced scorecard approach with standardized metrics for cost, schedule, quality, and risk that can be applied across all project types, establish baseline performance standards based on historical data and industry benchmarks, create evaluation processes that capture lessons learned and support continuous improvement, and implement regular review cycles that inform organizational development.
 Focus on developing criteria for the most critical performance areas such as cost and schedule compliance, establish minimum acceptable performance standards, and implement evaluation procedures that can be easily administered with current resources.
 Create project-type-specific evaluation criteria that address unique characteristics while maintaining common core metrics, establish clear performance standards and measurement procedures, and implement regular evaluation cycles that support both project management and organizational learning.
 Establish basic performance metrics for cost, schedule, and quality that apply to all projects, create standardized reporting procedures, and implement quarterly review processes to track performance trends and identify improvement opportunities.


17.
The district commander has initiated a strategic planning process to develop new corporate plans, goals, and objectives for the next five years. This effort must account for changing mission requirements, evolving technology, workforce demographics, and budget uncertainties. As the senior civilian leader, you are tasked with collaborating with the commander and other senior leaders to ensure the strategic plan is comprehensive, achievable, and aligned with higher headquarters guidance. How do you approach this collaboration?

 Coordinate with senior leaders to review current plans and identify needed updates, facilitate planning sessions to develop new goals and objectives, and ensure the resulting plan addresses key organizational priorities and mission requirements.
 Focus on updating existing plans to reflect current conditions and requirements, since comprehensive strategic planning is too time-consuming and uncertain given the rapidly changing environment.
 Work with senior leaders to conduct comprehensive assessment of current organizational capabilities and future challenges, facilitate collaborative development of strategic priorities and objectives, and ensure alignment with higher headquarters guidance and stakeholder expectations.
 Support the commander's planning initiative by providing organizational data and analysis, participate in planning meetings to offer input on operational considerations, and help ensure the plan reflects realistic organizational capabilities.
 Facilitate a structured strategic planning process that includes environmental scanning, stakeholder analysis, and scenario planning, ensure broad participation from senior leaders and key staff, develop integrated goals that address mission, organizational, and resource considerations, and establish implementation and monitoring frameworks that support accountability and adaptation.


18.
A major flood control project in your district is facing significant public opposition due to environmental concerns and property impacts, despite strong support from local government officials who emphasize the critical flood protection needs. The project has been in planning for several years, but recent community meetings have revealed intense opposition that could lead to legal challenges and political complications. You must make decisions about how to proceed while providing guidance to your staff. How do you balance mission needs with public reaction?

 Engage directly with community groups to understand their specific concerns, work with technical staff to evaluate potential project modifications that could address public issues while maintaining flood protection benefits, and guide staff in developing collaborative approaches to stakeholder engagement.
 Proceed with the project as planned while implementing comprehensive public information campaigns to build support, and guide staff to focus on technical and regulatory requirements while managing public relations professionally.
 Conduct comprehensive stakeholder analysis to understand all perspectives and concerns, facilitate meaningful public engagement to explore alternative approaches that address both flood protection needs and community concerns, develop modified project options that balance mission requirements with public input, and provide staff guidance on transparent communication and adaptive project management.
 Continue project development without major changes since the flood protection mission is critical and local government support provides adequate political backing for project completion.
 Implement enhanced public outreach and education efforts to better communicate project benefits and address misconceptions, explore reasonable project modifications that could reduce public concerns, and provide staff guidance on managing public relations challenges.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙