Position Title
Natural Resources Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-12953973-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Natural Resources Manager GS-0401-12 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Natural Resources Manager at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience which includes courses equivalent to a major, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Natural Resources Manager at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes includes 1) Implementing a variety of natural resource management programs for protection of serviced area(s); 2) Reviewing requests for leases, licenses, or special use permits for all equipment and lands in serviced area(s); 3) Coordinating the management of a variety of facilities and visitor information centers; and 4) Monitoring plans for equipment and resource needs for successful project operation and maintenance. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-11).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. • There are no right or wrong answers. • Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. • This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are tasked with updating the five-year Land and Natural Resource Management Plan for your project. The update is complicated by conflicting demands from various stakeholders: a local business group wants to expand commercial recreational activities, a conservation organization is advocating for more protected wilderness areas, and a regional recreation club wants more trails. Furthermore, a new, unfunded federal mandate to manage an invasive plant species has just been issued. How do you proceed with coordinating the plan's development?

 Prioritize the new unfunded mandate by directing your team to develop a comprehensive invasive species control plan first, and then work to integrate that specific plan into the larger, existing land management plan at a later date.
 Delegate the development of the new plan to a lead park ranger, instructing them to consult the relevant regulations and previous plans to create a draft for your review, allowing you to focus on other duties.
 Reuse the previous five-year plan with minor date changes and submit it to leadership, arguing that the stakeholder demands are perennial and the new mandate is unfunded, making a full update impractical at this time.
 Initiate a series of public stakeholder workshops to gather input, direct staff to compile existing data on resource use and ecological health, and begin a preliminary analysis of how the new mandate can be integrated with existing goals while exploring potential funding sources.
 Draft a preliminary plan based on previous plans and internal expert consultation that balances the competing interests, then circulate the draft to all key stakeholders and the public for a formal comment period before making revisions.


2.
During a routine site inspection, one of your park rangers reports that a contractor on a private development project adjacent to federal land is allowing significant sediment runoff into a stream that flows onto public property, a potential violation of the Clean Water Act. The contractor is well-connected and influential in the local community. What is the most appropriate immediate course of action?

 Call the owner of the contracting company, with whom you have a professional relationship, and informally ask them to "take a look at the issue" at the boundary line to avoid escalating the situation and creating a formal conflict.
 Tell the ranger to disregard the issue since the activity is not occurring directly on federal land and engaging could create a difficult political situation that would complicate future partnerships with the local community.
 Instruct the ranger to fully document the observation with photos and notes, immediately contact your agency's environmental compliance office for guidance, and prepare to issue a formal notice of non-compliance to the contractor.
 Go to the site to personally verify the runoff, then contact the contractor’s site manager directly, explain the potential violation and required corrective actions, and schedule a follow-up inspection for the next day to ensure compliance.
 Ask the ranger to continue monitoring the situation and gather more evidence, such as water samples and additional photos over the next 24-48 hours, to build a stronger case before taking any formal action.


3.
A scenic, but ecologically sensitive, area within your jurisdiction has been featured on a popular social media travel site, leading to a sudden and massive increase in visitors. This has resulted in severe trail erosion, widespread litter, and disturbance to local wildlife. Your current staff and facilities in the area are completely overwhelmed. What is the best technique to implement?

 Welcome the increased visitor traffic as it brings positive attention to the park and begin drafting a budget request for the next fiscal year to ask for more funding to repair the damages that are occurring.
 Implement a temporary permit or reservation system to manage visitor numbers, increase ranger patrols for education and enforcement, and launch a targeted social media campaign on "Leave No Trace" principles for that specific area.
 Immediately install temporary signage detailing the area's sensitivity and rules, increase the frequency of trash collection, and reassign staff from other areas to the site to educate visitors on proper use and behavior.
 Propose a formal, long-term study to analyze the ecological and social impacts of the increased visitation in order to gather data for a future management plan, while directing staff to document the ongoing damage.
 Close the area to all public access immediately and indefinitely until a comprehensive management plan can be developed and funded, without providing alternative access or a detailed public communication plan.


4.
Due to recent budget cuts, you have fewer seasonal rangers available for patrols this year. At the same time, you are seeing an increase in reports of unauthorized activities like illegal dumping and ATV use in the more remote sectors of the park. How do you establish an effective patrol program under these constraints?

 Analyze incident report data to identify high-risk areas and times, reallocate the remaining patrol staff to focus on these "hot spots," and explore partnerships with local law enforcement or volunteer groups to supplement presence in other areas.
 Maintain the existing patrol routes and schedules but instruct rangers to reduce the duration of stops in order to cover more ground with fewer staff and install additional "No Trespassing" and "Authorized Vehicles Only" signs in problem areas.
 Focus all remaining patrol resources on the most popular, high-visibility areas of the park to maintain a strong public presence and ensure visitor safety, leaving the remote areas largely unpatrolled until staffing levels increase.
 Submit an emergency budget request to leadership to hire the necessary number of rangers, putting all patrol planning on hold until the request is approved and the new staff can be brought on board.
 Discontinue all patrols in the remote sectors to save on fuel and vehicle maintenance costs, deciding that unauthorized use in those areas is not a high priority compared to managing the main recreational facilities.


5.
A timber company has submitted a proposal for a sustainable-yield timber harvest in a forest section that is also a popular hiking area and a known habitat for a sensitive migratory bird species. Environmental groups are strongly opposed, while the timber industry and some local officials are strongly in favor. How do you ensure an acceptable management plan is created?

 Review the proposal with your internal agency specialists, including a wildlife biologist, forester, and recreation planner, to develop a modified plan that attempts to balance the competing uses, and then release that internal draft for public comment.
 Approve the timber harvest on the condition that the logging company avoids work during the bird's primary nesting season and agrees to fund the construction of a new, separate hiking trail elsewhere in the park as an offset.
 Deny the timber harvest proposal outright to avoid controversy and uphold your mandate to protect wildlife resources, citing the potential impact on the sensitive bird species as the primary reason for the denial.
 Approve the timber harvesting proposal as it was submitted because it will generate significant revenue that can be used for other park projects and inform the opposing groups that timber harvesting is a legally permitted use.
 Commission a third-party multi-resource impact study to provide objective data on the ecological and recreational impacts, then convene a working group with representatives from all stakeholder groups to review the data and collaboratively develop a draft plan.


6.
You are responsible for implementing a complex, multi-year wetlands mitigation plan. After the first year, monitoring data reveals that the survival rate for the newly planted native vegetation is only 30%, far below the 80% success criteria projected in the plan. Continuing this path will likely lead to project failure. What is your next step?

 Formally document the low survival rate in the required annual report, noting that environmental factors may have contributed, but continue to implement the plan exactly as written for the next phase, as specified in the approved document.
 Halt all further implementation of the plan, including planting and monitoring, until a full-scale, third-party review of the plan's feasibility can be completed, even if this delays the project by a full year or more.
 Instruct your staff to alter the monitoring protocols and data in the annual report to show a higher survival rate to avoid triggering questions from regulators and ensure that project funding continues without interruption.
 Convene the project team and consulting ecologists to analyze the monitoring data, identify potential causes for the low survival rate, and develop an adaptive management strategy that may include different species or site preparation for the next phase.
 Continue to follow the original planting plan for the second year but direct your staff to increase watering and pest control efforts for the new plantings to see if those intensive, short-term measures can improve the survival rates.


7.
While reviewing annual usage data and field reports, you identify two conflicting problems: a remote campground shows a sharp decline in use, while a popular day-use area is consistently overcrowded, leading to resource damage and negative visitor feedback. Your staffing and budget are fixed for the remainder of the year. How do you address this situation?

 Recommend the permanent closure of the underused campground to save on maintenance costs and then reallocate the staff and budget from that site to better manage the persistent overcrowding at the popular day-use area.
 Assume that visitor usage patterns fluctuate naturally from year to year and that the problems will likely be resolved over time without any specific management intervention or reallocation of resources.
 Task a team to conduct a rapid assessment of the underused campground to identify the cause of its decline and simultaneously develop a plan to redirect visitors from the overcrowded area to other underutilized sites through better information and signage.
 Focus your limited resources on the overcrowded area by implementing temporary visitor limits and increasing staff presence there, while making a note to investigate the issues at the underused campground during next year's planning cycle.
 Launch a new marketing campaign to heavily promote the underused campground on social media and the park website, hoping to naturally draw visitors away from the overcrowded one without changing operations.


8.
A high-priority, time-sensitive request to analyze a complex land use proposal and brief leadership has just arrived. You have two available staff: a highly experienced senior specialist who is already at full capacity with other critical projects, and a motivated junior employee who has availability but lacks experience with this type of analysis. How do you assign this task?

 Assign the task to the senior specialist without discussing their current workload, informing them that this new task is now the top priority and they need to get it done on time regardless of their other commitments.
 Assign the task to the junior employee to foster their development, but structure it by providing clear initial guidance, setting up regular check-in meetings, and assigning the senior specialist to serve as a mentor and final reviewer.
 Assign the task to the senior specialist after meeting with them to re-prioritize their existing workload, allowing them to delegate one of their less urgent tasks to another team member to create the necessary capacity.
 Assign the task to the junior employee with a detailed checklist of steps to follow and a copy of a previous analysis as a template, instructing them to do their best and submit their final report directly to you.
 Decide to complete the analysis and briefing yourself, working evenings and the weekend to get it done, to ensure it meets the high standard and short deadline without overburdening any of your staff.


9.
During annual reviews, several of your park rangers express a strong desire for advanced training in wildland fire behavior and cultural resource protection, two areas of growing importance for the project. However, your budget for external training is extremely limited and cannot cover the costs of formal courses for everyone. What is the best way to proceed?

 Use the limited budget to send one key employee to an external "train-the-trainer" course, with the formal requirement that they develop and deliver a condensed version of the training to the rest of the staff upon their return.
 Add the requested training needs to each employee's official Individual Development Plan (IDP) but inform them that no action can be taken until and unless additional training funds become available later in the fiscal year.
 Inform the rangers that while their interest in professional development is appreciated, there is simply no budget for non-mandatory training and that they should focus on the core duties outlined in their position descriptions.
 Advise the rangers that if they are truly passionate about these subjects, they should seek out and pay for the training on their own time, as it is not a core requirement for their current jobs and the agency cannot fund it.
 Develop a multi-faceted training plan that includes internal cross-training led by experienced staff, identifies low-cost online certification programs, and tasks an employee with seeking grant funding for a future comprehensive course.


10.
You supervise a long-serving employee who consistently meets the basic requirements of their job but shows no initiative, avoids challenging assignments, and produces work that is merely adequate. Their official performance standards, written years ago, do not explicitly include elements like "innovation" or "initiative." Their performance review is due. What is the most appropriate action?

 Meet with the employee to collaboratively update their performance plan, introducing new standards that include specific, measurable goals related to process improvement or skill development, and offer coaching to help them meet these new expectations.
 Rate the employee as "Fully Successful" since they meet all existing standards but add detailed narrative comments in their review that document the lack of initiative and encourage them to take on more challenging projects in the upcoming year.
 Give the employee a "Fully Successful" rating without making any negative comments to avoid a difficult conversation but begin assigning them slightly more challenging tasks to passively test their capabilities and see how they respond.
 Give the employee a lower performance rating, such as "Minimally Successful," citing their lack of initiative and drive as the primary justification, even though these elements are not explicitly part of their current written standards.
 Stop offering the employee any challenging or developmental assignments, instead giving all new and interesting projects to other team members, and leave the employee to handle only their routine, legacy duties.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙