Position Title
Materials Handler
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-27-13083074-DHA-R
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
Short Essay Questions
.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.
2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.
3.
In this role, you will be expected to professionally and efficiently implement executive direction. Provide an example where you implemented leadership direction on a strategy or policy decision that differed from your own recommendation.
4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.
5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No
MQ Only JW JT405750 13077597
.
Thank you for your interest in a Materials Handler position with the Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Materials Handler duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Materials Handler duties. I have knowledge of warehousing methods and procedures, shipping and issuing techniques in order to select proper storage locations, stock and palletize items. I am knowledgeable in loading and unloading methods to prevent damage during transport and to expedite unloading. I am knowledgeable of information contained on receiving vouchers sufficient to segregate shipments into appropriate categories. I am skilled in operating forklifts, hand trucks and other material handling equipment. I have the ability to conduct inventories using computers and handheld terminals. I have the ability to operate motor vehicles in weight range up to 10,0000 pounds and occasionally up to 4-ton capacity. I have the ability to read and understand Safety Data Sheets. I have the ability to use test equipment to test bottles gases. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties as a Materials Handler. I have knowledge of warehousing methods and procedures, shipping and issuing techniques in order to select proper storage locations, stock and palletize items. I am knowledgeable in loading and unloading methods to prevent damage during transport and to expedite unloading. I am skilled in operating forklifts, hand trucks and other material handling equipment. I have the ability to conduct inventories using computers and handheld terminals. I have the ability to operate motor vehicles in weight range up to 10,0000 pounds and occasionally up to 4-ton capacity. I have the ability to read and understand Safety Data Sheets. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Materials Handler duties. I have knowledge of warehousing methods and procedures, shipping and issuing techniques in order to select proper storage locations, stock and palletize items. I am knowledgeable in loading and unloading methods to prevent damage during transport and to expedite unloading. I am skilled in operating forklifts, hand trucks and other material handling equipment. I have the ability to conduct inventories using computers and handheld terminals. I have the ability to read and understand Safety Data Sheets. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Materials Handler work or I have received training on material shipping and receiving.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
