Position Title
Courtroom Clerk
Agency
District of Columbia Courts
Announcement Number
CTWD-26-13015977 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Courtroom Clerk position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Your resume and documentation must reflect your responses.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your highest level of education and experience.
 I have a bachelors degree or higher.
 I have an associates degree plus one (1) year of administrative or clerical experience in a general, legal or office environment.
 I have a high school diploma/GED certificate plus three (3) years of administrative or clerical experience in a general, legal or office environment.
 None of the above.


2.
With which software programs do you have experience in a professional setting?
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Excel
 C. Microsoft Access
 D. Microsoft PowerPoint
 E. Outlook
 F. Case Management Systems
 G. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I have some familiarity with the criminal justice system, judicial branch or legal terminology.
 Yes
 No


4.
Which response best represents your experience setting priorities?
 I have no education, training, or experience in setting priorities.
 I have education and/or training in setting priorities but I have not had to do so at work.
 I have experience setting priorities for my own work under supervision.
 I routinely prioritize my own work without supervision.
 I routinely prioritize my work and the work of others.
 I routinely provide training to others in establishing priorities.


5.
Which of the following statements describes your experience working with highly confidential information?
 I have not had an opportunity to display this ability. It is not a normal part of my responsibilities.
 I have used this ability as part of my duties in an administrative capacity within a legal environment. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I am required to comply with confidentiality standards on a daily basis in a legal environment where I am responsible for maintaining confidential records in compliance with confidentiality requirements. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 None of the above.


6.
Which responses describe your experience working with a team? Select all the responses that apply.
 A. I worked on group projects while in college or at work.
 B. I have given group presentations while in college or at work.
 C. I worked on group projects while at work.
 D. I have given group presentations while at work.
 E. None of the above.


7.
Which responses best describe your experience in public speaking? Select all the responses that apply.
 A. I have made formal presentations to subordinates, colleagues, and/or supervisors.
 B. I have delivered informational briefings to officials outside my employing organizations.
 C. I have successfully completed college level courses in public speaking.
 D. I have participated in formal oral communication groups such as Toastmasters.
 E. None of the above.


8.
Which response best describes your preferred approach to reviewing documents within a short period of time?
 I provide a comprehensive review of documents, even if it takes longer than the specified deadline.
 I focus on identifying major conceptual and grammatical problems first, and then move on to minor spelling and grammatical problems if I have time.
 I work quickly to identify every problem within the specified timeframe.
 I review the documents several times looking for errors.
 I provide a comprehensive review of the documents within the established timeframe.
 None of the above.


9.
Please select the choice(s) that best describes your ability to work effectively with others.
 A. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Diffused confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 D. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 E. Developed trusting, productive working relationships with people from diverse cultural backgrounds to achieve goals and objectives.
 F. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal.
 G. None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙