Position Title
HR SPEC
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA-26-12882273-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


5.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


10.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Hamilton, NY
 B. Portland, OR
 C. Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a HR SPEC position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of HR SPEC at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Planning all human resources management activities for an organization. Analyzing trends in human resources management to assure maximum use of delegated human resources management authorities by top management. Directing a program consisting of position management and classification, pay administration, placement and recruitment, and labor, employee-management relations for large organization.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. There are no right or wrong answers. Your responses should reflect sound judgement and professional decision-making. This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
As HR Strategic Advisor for a USACE Division, your annual compliance review reveals that three district offices have implemented recruitment practices that deviate from OPM and DA regulations. One district claims their approach yields better diversity outcomes, another cites operational urgency, and the third was unaware of recent policy updates. Division leadership wants immediate resolution while maintaining positive relationships with district commanders. What is your approach?

 Schedule a joint meeting with all district commanders to review the regulations, discuss the compliance issues collectively, and establish standardized procedures with quarterly check-ins to prevent future deviations.
 Conduct individual meetings with each district commander to understand their rationale, provide regulatory clarification, and collaboratively develop compliant alternatives that address their specific concerns while establishing a monitoring system for ongoing compliance.
 Allow the districts to continue their current practices temporarily while you research whether their approaches might warrant requesting regulatory waivers or exceptions from higher headquarters.
 Report the compliance issues to Division leadership first, recommend immediate cessation of non-compliant practices, and suggest that district commanders receive mandatory training on current regulations.
 Issue a formal memorandum to all districts outlining the compliance requirements, provide copies of relevant regulations, and request written action plans within 30 days to address the identified deficiencies.


2.
As HR Strategic Advisor, you are directing a comprehensive program covering position classification, pay administration, recruitment, and labor relations for a USACE Division. A new organizational restructuring initiative requires your program to support the reclassification of 200+ engineering positions, implement updated pay scales, recruit for 50 new specialized positions, and negotiate with three different unions—all within the next fiscal year. Your current staff capacity was designed for steady-state operations. How do you manage this expanded program scope?

 Attempt to maintain all current program activities while adding the new requirements, require staff to work extended hours during peak periods, and hope that efficiency improvements will emerge naturally as staff adapt to increased workload.
 Focus resources on the most urgent requirements first, delay non-critical activities until major projects are completed, assign staff to work on multiple initiatives simultaneously, and communicate revised timelines to stakeholders based on available capacity.
 Develop a master project plan with phased implementation timelines, reallocate staff based on expertise and workload capacity, establish cross-functional teams for complex initiatives, and create coordination mechanisms between all program areas to ensure integrated execution while maintaining quality standards.
 Recommend postponing the organizational restructuring until the following fiscal year, maintain current program operations unchanged, and suggest that the Division request additional funding before proceeding with any expanded initiatives.
 Prioritize initiatives based on mission criticality and regulatory deadlines, assign dedicated project leads for each major effort, request temporary staff augmentation for peak periods, and establish weekly progress reviews to monitor deliverables across all program areas.


3.
During strategic planning sessions, Division leadership proposes consolidating three district HR offices into a centralized service center to reduce costs. District commanders argue this will decrease responsiveness to local needs, while the Division Commander emphasizes budget pressures from HQUSACE. You must assess the HR implications and provide recommendations. What is your approach?

 Support the consolidation proposal while recommending enhanced technology and communication systems to maintain service quality, and suggest establishing liaison positions in each district to address local concerns.
 Oppose the consolidation based on potential service disruptions, recommend maintaining current structure, and suggest finding cost savings through other means such as reducing training budgets or eliminating development programs.
 Recommend proceeding with centralization as directed by Division leadership, focus on minimizing implementation costs, and develop training programs to help districts adapt to the new service delivery model.
 Evaluate the cost-benefit implications of centralization, survey district commanders and employees about service priorities, and recommend a phased implementation approach that maintains critical local services while achieving budget targets.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis comparing current service delivery metrics with projected centralized model performance, assess impact on employee services and district operations, and present alternative hybrid models that balance cost savings with service quality.


4.
You are representing USACE at an interagency meeting where OPM is proposing new classification standards that could significantly impact engineering positions across your division. Other agency representatives express concerns about implementation timelines and resource requirements. The OPM representative asks for your organization's position on the proposed changes. How do you respond?

 State that the proposed standards appear problematic for USACE's specialized engineering positions and suggest that military construction agencies should be exempt from these particular requirements.
 Indicate that USACE will comply with whatever standards OPM implements, request detailed guidance documents, and ask for clarification on specific technical requirements that may affect engineering classifications.
 Support the general direction of the proposed standards while noting that USACE will need to assess impacts on current positions and may require technical assistance during implementation.
 Acknowledge the complexity of implementing new standards across diverse engineering specialties, outline specific challenges related to USACE's unique mission requirements, and propose collaborative development of implementation guidance that addresses technical occupations.
 Express appreciation for OPM's efforts to modernize classification standards, identify potential benefits for USACE positions, and request extended implementation timelines to ensure proper training and system updates.


5.
The Department of Energy approaches USACE about establishing joint recruitment initiatives for specialized environmental engineers, offering to share costs for recruitment events and potentially implement special salary rates. However, your current recruitment budget is limited, and there are concerns about whether DOE's salary proposals align with USACE pay policies. How do you proceed?

 Propose a pilot partnership focusing on shared recruitment events and candidate databases, analyze the feasibility of special salary rates within USACE authorities, and develop a cost-sharing agreement that maximizes benefits while staying within budget constraints.
 Accept all proposed initiatives immediately to demonstrate inter-agency cooperation, commit to matching DOE's salary offers, and assume that budget and policy issues can be resolved during implementation.
 Express interest in collaboration while requesting detailed information about proposed salary rates and recruitment strategies, and suggest starting with low-cost initiatives like shared job postings and candidate referrals.
 Agree to participate in joint recruitment events within your current budget limitations, defer decisions on special salary rates pending policy review, and propose quarterly meetings to evaluate partnership effectiveness.
 Decline the salary rate proposals due to policy concerns but offer to participate in shared recruitment activities, and suggest that each agency handle compensation decisions independently.


6.
During an organizational effectiveness review, you identify opportunities to eliminate redundant administrative positions and restructure remaining roles to better support the Division's engineering mission. However, affected employees are concerned about job security, and some supervisors resist changes to their organizational structure. How do you communicate these recommendations?

 Present the restructuring as a directive from senior leadership, minimize discussion of job eliminations, and emphasize that remaining employees will benefit from streamlined operations and clearer role definitions.
 Explain the rationale for organizational changes in terms of mission requirements and efficiency gains, provide detailed transition plans for affected employees, and offer to work with supervisors to address their specific concerns.
 Present data-driven analysis showing how restructuring will improve mission effectiveness, outline specific benefits for remaining positions including enhanced responsibilities and development opportunities, and address employee concerns through transparent communication and retraining options.
 Recommend implementing changes gradually without full disclosure to minimize employee anxiety, suggest that eliminated positions can be restored if the restructuring proves unsuccessful, and avoid detailed discussions about specific impacts.
 Focus on the positive aspects of restructuring such as career advancement opportunities and improved workflow, acknowledge employee concerns, and emphasize that changes are necessary for organizational effectiveness.


7.
Your HR staff is struggling to meet performance standards due to increased workload from new regulatory requirements and multiple high-priority recruitment actions. Two experienced staff members are considering transfers to other agencies, and newer employees need additional guidance. District commanders are expressing frustration with delayed services. How do you address this situation?

 Meet with experienced staff to understand their concerns and offer incentives to remain, assign simpler tasks to newer employees while they develop skills, and request patience from district commanders during the transition period.
 Assess individual staff capabilities and workload distribution, implement targeted mentoring for newer employees, negotiate realistic service timelines with district commanders, and develop retention strategies for experienced staff including workload adjustments and professional development opportunities.
 Accept the departure of experienced staff as inevitable, focus on hiring replacements quickly, and maintain current service commitments regardless of staff capabilities or workload concerns.
 Reorganize work assignments to better match staff skills with tasks, provide additional training for newer employees, communicate service delays to district commanders with revised timelines, and explore temporary staffing solutions.
 Require all staff to work additional hours to meet current demands, postpone training activities for newer employees, and inform district commanders that service levels will improve once staff adjusts to new requirements.


8.
The Division Commander, an SES member, requests your guidance on implementing a new performance management approach that differs from standard OPM guidelines but aligns with military leadership principles. The Commander believes this approach will better serve the Division's unique mission requirements, but you have concerns about regulatory compliance and potential grievances. How do you respond?

 Acknowledge the Commander's leadership expertise while explaining regulatory constraints, propose modifications to the suggested approach that maintain compliance, and offer to explore waiver possibilities through appropriate channels.
 Advise the Commander that federal regulations must take precedence over military leadership principles, recommend strict adherence to OPM guidelines, and suggest focusing on areas where military approaches are already permitted.
 Fully endorse the Commander's approach based on their senior leadership experience, assume that SES-level authority provides sufficient flexibility to modify standard procedures, and proceed with implementation across the Division.
 Express support for innovative leadership approaches while recommending a pilot program in one district to test effectiveness and compliance, with plans to expand if successful and legally sound.
 Research regulatory flexibility within OPM guidelines, analyze potential risks and benefits of the proposed approach, and present alternative solutions that incorporate the Commander's leadership principles while ensuring full compliance with federal requirements.


9.
Your analysis reveals that district commanders are underutilizing their delegated hiring authorities, resulting in lengthy recruitment processes and missed opportunities to hire quality candidates. Some commanders prefer central oversight for all hiring decisions, while others lack confidence in their authority limits. This trend is affecting the Division's ability to meet staffing goals. What action do you take?

 Recommend revoking delegated authorities from commanders who don't use them effectively and centralizing all hiring decisions to ensure consistent and timely recruitment processes across the Division.
 Organize group training sessions covering all delegated authorities, distribute comprehensive reference materials, and establish regular check-ins with commanders to encourage greater use of their hiring authorities.
 Develop targeted training programs addressing specific authority limitations and decision-making processes, create user-friendly guidance documents with practical examples, and establish a mentoring system pairing confident commanders with those needing support while tracking utilization improvements.
 Send detailed memoranda explaining the importance of using delegated authorities, require commanders to justify any requests for central involvement in hiring decisions, and report underutilization to Division leadership.
 Conduct individual meetings with each commander to assess their comfort level with delegated authorities, provide customized training based on their needs, and implement a tracking system to monitor authority usage and outcomes.


10.
You need to restructure your team's work assignments and schedules to accommodate new regulatory reporting requirements while maintaining current service levels. One senior staff member excels at complex analysis but struggles with routine tasks, while newer employees need development opportunities but require close supervision. Additionally, some work must be completed during specific timeframes to meet regulatory deadlines. How do you approach this challenge?

 Assign complex analytical work to experienced staff while giving newer employees routine tasks with clear deadlines, provide structured training opportunities, and adjust schedules to ensure adequate supervision and regulatory compliance.
 Assign work primarily based on regulatory deadlines and current workload, provide training during slower periods, and require flexible schedules from all staff to meet changing priorities and requirements.
 Distribute work based on current capabilities, establish regular training sessions for skill development, and create overlapping schedules to provide coverage during peak periods and regulatory deadlines.
 Maintain current work assignments to avoid disruption, add regulatory requirements to existing workloads, and assume that staff will adapt their schedules as needed to meet all deadlines and service commitments.
 Match assignments to individual strengths and development needs, create mentoring partnerships between senior and junior staff, establish staggered schedules to ensure coverage during critical periods, and implement cross-training to build team flexibility while monitoring progress and adjusting as needed.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙