Position Title
PRIMARY PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12961677-T5-26-480 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



1.
REQUIRED EDUCATION OR EXPERIENCE

Must have one of the following:

A) Degree: behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.

OR

B) Combination of education and experience that provided the applicant with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field that included at least 24 semester hours of course work in the behavioral or social sciences.

OR

C) Four years of appropriate experience that demonstrated that the applicant has acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

Do you meet one of the education or experience requirements listed above?
 

(To receive credit for education, you must provide copies of all relevant transcripts with resume. Official copies may be required at a later date.)

 I meet requirement A.
 I meet requirement B.
 I meet requirement C.
 I do not meet these requirements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources. Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures. Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

(MUST address these specialized experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1 year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Experience, education or training analyzing problems, identifying significant factors, gathering pertinent data and recognizing solutions; preparing reports, plans, policies and various correspondence; evaluating objectives and develop plans to facilitate the availability and effective utilization of various social science resources. Must have knowledge of the organization and its mission and utilized the organizational staff procedures. Experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of social science program operations carried out by administrative or professional personnel, or substantive administrative support functions.


3a.
Please explain your experiences for the above requirements.


4.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙