Position Title
Government Information Specialist
Agency
Office of Management and Budget
Announcement Number
EOP-OMB-13015470-26-DLH-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a permanent employee assigned to the hiring agency seeking a reassignment or promotion under Merit Promotion procedures?  If yes, confirm:
Your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, block 24 is a "1" or "2" and block 34 is a "1" or "2".
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation.  For example, a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action.  If you have previously held a higher grade or if your position has a full performance level, please ensure you submit all of the SF-50's to support your prior appointments.  We cannot accept Award SF-50's.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a Federal agency other than the Executive Office of the President? If yes, confirm you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (non-award).

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Additional Questions
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form (SF) 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one or more of these appointment types in the past five years.
 No, I have not held any of these appointment types in the past five years.
 I am unsure if I have held any of these appointment types in the past five years.


2.
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.

How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or enhanced outcomes. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position. Your response should be written in your own words and should not exceed 200 words.


6.
You are required to certify that you are using you own words to answer these four essay questions and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I certify that I used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).
 I do NOT certify that I am using my own words, and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language model [LLM]).


7.
As part of the application process, you have the option to make your resume available to hiring managers within the agency and other agencies within the Executive Office of the President who have similar positions. Would you like to opt-in to have your resume shared with hiring managers for similar positions within this agency and other agencies? Opting in does not impact your application for this announcement, nor does it guarantee further consideration for additional positions.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


Assessment 1
1.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0306-11, Government Information Specialist.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service or equivalent in the private sector that demonstrates the following: 1) Responding to requests for organizational records or other information; 2) applying redactions to documents; and 3) Utilizing e-discovery tools.
 I have a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience.
 I do not possess the experience or education described in the above statements.


2.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0306-12, Government Information Specialist.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector which includes: 1) Drafting and responding to requests for organizational information from third parties; 2) applying redactions consistent with applicable legal requirements; and 3) Utilizing e-discovery tools
 I do not possess the experience described in the above statement.


3.
Please select one response that best describes how you meet the minimum qualifications for a GS-0306-13, Government Information Specialist.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-12) in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector which includes: 1) Suggesting recommendations on policies; 2) responding to requests for organizational information or other information from third parties; 3) applying redactions consistent with applicable legal requirements; and 4) Utilizing e-discovery tools.
 I do not possess the experience described in the above statement


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and is supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in the questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙