Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13061452-26-KL Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. King of Prussia, PA
 B. Arlington, TX


Additional Applicant Information
1.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-12, GG-11, or N/A for not applicable).


2.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or N/A for not applicable).


3.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


4.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all information submitted with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (including degrees and accomplishments)? Do you understand that the information you provide may be investigated, and that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring you or for termination after you begin work? Additionally, do you acknowledge that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes, I certify and acknowledge the above statements.
 No, I do not certify or acknowledge the above statements.


Assessment 1
This assessment will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for an Administrative Assistant, GG-0318-07. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
GG-7 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-7 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-06 (or higher) grade level or equivalent, to include Demonstrated experience performing a wide range of administrative and secretarial functions, such as preparing and proofreading correspondence, scheduling appointments, maintaining supervisor's calendar, arranging travel, etc.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙