Position Title
DEPUTY ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR
Agency
Food Safety and Inspection Service
Announcement Number
FSIS-SES-2026-8847 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Career member of the Senior Executive Service (SES)?  
This means you are serving in a Career Reserve SES position or that you are serving in a General SES position and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). If yes, you must provide an SF-50 showing your status as a career SES.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a graduate of an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) certified Candidate Development Program?
This means you would have a signed document stating that you are a graduate of an OPM certified Candidate Development Program and that your ECQs have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management. If yes, please submit a copy of your certification with your application package.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you Re-instatement eligible to the SES?
This means that you were previously employed as a Career SES member and that you completed your one-year probationary period.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙