Position Title
Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor - BHIP Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12852141-26-DC Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 29, 2025 to Jan 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 E. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 C. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor (LPMHC) - BHIP Therapist position with the Eastern Colorado VA Healthcare System. The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for placement consideration. Please select the most appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current situation. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.
 
Grandfathering Provision: An LPMHC employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (4/3/2018) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.
 
NOTE: Applicants pending the completion of the licensure requirement may be selected (GS-09 only) and given up to a three-year temporary appointment.


Basic Requirements: The basic requirements for employment as a LPMHC are prescribed by statute in 38 U.S.C. 7402(b)(11). To qualify for appointment as a LPMHC all applicants must meet the following.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 3, Section A, Paragraph 3j: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.
 
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Candidates must hold a master's or doctoral degree in: Clinical Mental Health Counseling; Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling; Clinical Mental Health Counseling and Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling; or a related field, from a program accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). Examples of related mental health counseling fields include, but are not limited to Addiction Counseling; Community Counseling; Gerontology Counseling; Marital, Couple, and Family Counseling. CACREP defines the date when graduates are considered to have graduated from a CACREP accredited program. Additional information may be obtained from http://www.cacrep.org/directory/.

NOTE: Traditional Rehabilitation counseling programs that are accredited by CACREP do not meet the LPMHC qualification standards as Traditional Rehabilitation counseling differs from Clinical Rehabilitation counseling.

Do you possess the education listed above and is it accredited by CACREP?
 
OR
 
Are you a current and/or former VA trainee who will meet the VA qualifications by the time you are hired?
 Yes, I currently hold a master's or doctoral degree in Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, or a related field, from a program accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP) OR I am a current or former VA Trainee who will meet the VA qualifications by the time I am hired.
 No, I do not currently hold a master's or doctoral degree in Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, Clinical Mental Health Counseling, Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling, or a related field, from a program accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP).


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's and/or doctoral degree.
Name of Institution
City and State
Degree
Major/Program
Month and Year conferred


3.
Licensure: Persons hired or reassigned to LPMHC positions in the GS-0183 series in VHA must hold a full, current, and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.

Exception: VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure. This exception only applies at the GS-9 level. For grade levels at or above the full performance level, the candidate must be licensed. At the time of appointment, the Human Resources Office will provide the unlicensed LPMHC with the written requirements for obtaining licensure, the date by which the license must be acquired, and the consequences for not becoming license by the deadline.

Do you meet the licensure requirement?
 Yes, I have a current license certified by a state to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.
 I do not have a current license certified by a state; however, I would like to apply with a request as an exception to waive the licensure requirement, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure examinations at the GS-09 level ONLY.
 No, I do not meet this requirement, and I do not intend to obtain a license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor; therefore, I do not meet this requirement for appointment as a VA Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor.


3a.
Provide the following information regarding your licensure.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-9 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: At this level, Individuals assigned as GS-9 LPMHCs are considered to be at the entry level and are closely supervised, including co-signatures where required, as they are not functioning at the full performance level. Candidates must also demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to engage in information gathering, problem identification, diagnosis, treatment planning, implementation, evaluation and follow-up.
Knowledge of current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) of Mental Disorders in formulation of treatment goals and application of appropriate clinical interventions using professional counseling practices.
Basic knowledge of professional counseling practice with emphasis on human development principles through cognitive, affective, behavioral or systemic interventions, and strategies that address high risk behaviors, wellness, personal growth, and career development across the life span.
Ability to use a wide variety of individual, group, or family counseling interventions; demonstrates sensitivity to diversity and possesses multicultural counseling skills.
Ability to serve on an interdisciplinary team with focus on the intrapersonal, interpersonal, and relational functioning of individuals, groups and families and on the counseling approaches, strategies, and techniques that will best help patients function effectively.
Basic skill in the use of computer software applications for drafting documents, data management, maintaining accurate, timely and thorough clinical documentation and delivery of services, such as Telehealth.
Knowledge and understanding of existing relevant statutes, case laws, ethical codes, and regulations affecting professional practice of counseling.
Ability to communicate effectively, both orally and in writing, with people from varied backgrounds.
Do you meet the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-11 Experience and Education: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, you must also have at least one (1) year of post-master's degree mental health counseling experience OR a doctoral degree in mental health counseling, or a related field.

Please select the appropriate answer based on your level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.
 I have one (1) year of post-masters degree mental health counseling experience.
 I have a doctoral degree in mental health counseling, or a related field.
 I do not have the experience and/or education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-11 Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-11 grade level, candidates must demonstrate that they possess the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs):
Ability to make professional evaluations, decisions, and recommendation for treatment planning and implementation.
Advanced knowledge and mastery of the fundamentals of the counseling process which includes defining patient/family problems and maintaining an effective counseling relationship.
Ability to provide subject matter consultation to colleagues and students on the counseling process within various specialty areas, build on the foundation of competence through regular meetings and discussions to explain assignments, review progress of cases and confer about the counseling perspectives and orientation.
Ability to provide complex crisis intervention and stabilization to patients who are in psychological distress.
Ability to establish goals/treatment through a collaborative process with the patient utilizing advanced counseling skills, including evidenced-based practices and screening/assessment.
Ability to use a wide variety of individual, group, or familial counseling interventions; demonstrates sensitivity to diversity and possesses multicultural counseling skills.
Ability to fully utilize the current DSM in making diagnoses and formulation of treatment goals and application of appropriate clinical intervention using professional counseling practices.
Ability to develop and deliver psycho-education groups that include life skills, family support, and community integration.
Do you demonstrate these KSAs?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
 
SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50  or your separation/ resignation SF-50.  This SF-50 needs to  show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50.  A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's.  Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.
 
TRANSCRIPTS REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, classes taken with grades listed and credits awarded, name of degree conferred, (if applicable) is stated on the transcript.
 
LICENSURE REMINDER- Please provide a copy of your official certifications to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.

MILITARY DOCUMENTATION REMINDER- If you are a veteran claiming Veterans Preference you must submit the most recent Member 2 or Member 4 copy of your DD-214. If you are claiming 10 point CP or CPS or XP, you must also submit a copy of your SF-15 and a copy of your Service Connected Disability letter that shows your total percentage rating. Your veteran status cannot be verified without these documents and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.
 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙