Position Title
LOCK AND DAM OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12959850-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
8


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Lock & Dam Operator, WY-5426-5/6/7 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Lock & Dam Operator duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex journey level lock operator tasks. I have the ability to operate lock and dam gates and control valves. I am able to provide locking instructions to others when needed. I am able to determine whether craft desiring lockage can be locked safely. I am able read, interpret and follow operating instructions for most equipment without supervisory assistance. Moreover, I am able to recognize and avoid potential work hazards; and perform repairs necessary to keep lock in operation. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of tasks associated with the operation of lock and dam equipment where lock and dam gates and control valves are electrically or hydraulically controlled. I am able to inspect and perform minor repairs to lock and dam equipment to maintain functionality. I am able to apply locking procedures, policies, and laws regarding traffic right-of-way, sequence of operations, and safe passage of hazardous commodities and damaged crafts. I am able to comply with governing safety practices and procedures. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have ability to perform tasks associated with the operations of lock and dam equipment. I am able to operate lock chamber gates emptying and filling valves at a small lock. I am able to perform routine preventive maintenance tasks. I am able to follow specific instructions to perform assignments connected to lock operations safely. I am able to operate communications equipment to provide guidance to operators of crafts entering the lock chamber. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform common tasks associated with the operations of lock and dam equipment. I am able to perform routine preventive maintenance tasks. I am able to follow specific instructions to perform assignments related to lock operations safely. I am able to signal vessels during entry and direct the maneuver of boats within the lock chamber. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple maintenance or repair tasks utilizing mechanical or electrical equipment. I am able to perform grounds maintenance tasks. I am able to learn through on-the-job observation, training, and hands-on work experience.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙