Position Title
Supervisory Financial Management Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13006292-ST Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 21, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current/former employee of a Federal agency under an Interchange agreement or other similar authority?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

For additional information on interchange agreements and similar authorities, click here
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former Federal employee of a Land Management Agency that meets the eligibility requirements listed below?  Land Management agencies include the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the Bureau of Reclamation.  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation (i.e. performance appraisal(s) and all SF-50s (e.g. appointment date, separation date)) as proof of eligibility.
Must have been initially hired into a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and
Must have served under one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and
Must have performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and
If no longer employed by the land management agency, must have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current Department of the Commerce employee who holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service?
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General (OIG)
 Yes
 No


7.

Do you meet any of the following Non-Competitive eligibilities?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

You are a current federal employee with career or career-conditional status in the competitive service and have held the same or higher grade than the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with a permanent career appointment and have held the same or higher grade than the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with career-conditional status (within 3 years of separation or preference eligible) and have held the same or higher grade than the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee eligible for reinstatement to a higher grade/band than previously held, with at least one year since separation and a most recent performance rating of "Fully Successful" or equivalent. (SF-50 and performance documentation required.)

To verify eligibility as a current or former federal employee, submit your SF-50 (or equivalent) showing permanent, competitive status. If you resigned under career-conditional status, include your resignation SF-50. You may need to submit multiple SF-50s.

Your SF-50 must reflect:

Block 34 (Position Occupied) = "1"
Block 24 (Tenure) = "1" or "2"
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you meet any of the following Merit Promotion-Competitive eligibilities?
Note: You must submit supporting documentation to verify your eligibility.
You are a current federal employee with career or career-conditional status, but the highest permanent grade you've held is below the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with a permanent career appointment in the competitive service, and the highest grade you held is below the full performance level of the position being announced.
You are a former federal employee with career-conditional status (within 3 years of separation or a preference-eligible veteran), and the highest grade you held is below the full performance level of the position being announced.
To verify eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, submit your Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) or equivalent showing permanent, competitive status. If you resigned under career-conditional status, include your resignation SF-50. You may need to provide more than one SF-50.
Your SF-50 should reflect:
Block 34 (Position Occupied) = "1"
Block 24 (Tenure) = "1" or "2"
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you the spouse of an active-duty member of the Armed Forces eligible under E.O. 13832 and P.L. 115-232: The spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active-duty OR the spouse of a retired/separated member of the Armed Forces with a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veteran Affairs OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active-duty status?

If you indicate Yes for this question, you MUST submit the following:
Verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage), AND
If based on member's Active-Duty status: proof of active-duty status, i.e. spouse's Permanent Change of Station (PCS) or Active-Duty military orders, or official documentation from the Armed Forces branch that verifies spouse's active status.
If based on member's 100% disability:  verification of the member's retirement or release/discharge from active duty AND verification of 100% service-connected disability (DD-214 and/or VA Letter, https://www.va.gov/records/download-va-letters/.
If based on member's death: verification of the member's death while on active-duty (DD-1300).
For more information, review FedsHireVets.gov.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a current or former employee of one of the Federal agencies listed below who is eligible for non-competitive consideration?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
Postal Career Service Employee
Postal Rate Commission Employee
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee
 Yes
 No


11.
Have you previously served as a NOAA Commissioned Officer under NOAA Corps and separated honorably after at least 3 years of active service?

To verify your eligibility as a former NOAA Corps Officer, you must submit a copy of your NOAA Form 56-16.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you a veteran separated under honorable conditions who has a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?  This includes: 
Veterans who retired from active military service with a disability rating of 30% or more; or
Veterans rated by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) since 1991 or later to include disability determinations from a branch of the Armed Forces at any time, as having a compensable service-connected disability of 30 % or more.
Note: You will be required to provide supporting documentation. Please refer to the vacancy announcement for information on submitting documentation.

 Yes
 No


13.
Are you eligible for noncompetitive consideration under a hiring authority not otherwise listed?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member, or a current or former Peace Corps employee who meets one of the requirements described below for noncompetitive eligibility?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months. *OR*
Former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student, or other experience related to this position. *OR*
Current Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service without a break in service of 3 days or more.  *OR*
Former Peace Corps employee who completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years.   
 Yes
 No


15.
In the last five (5) years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee?  (To verify, check your Standard Form 50, section 5).  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFT 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


16.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric, or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability Appointment for which you can provide appropriate documentation issued by a licensed medical professional; a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist; or any Federal agency, State agency, or an agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits?   Note: you are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility. For additional information on requirements, click here
 Yes
 No


17.
Are you eligible under the Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA)? This includes veterans whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND either served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military OR are entitled to veterans' preference.
Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Miami, FL
 B. Panama City, FL
 C. Pascagoula, MS
 D. Beaufort, NC
 E. Galveston, TX


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Supervisory Financial Management Specialist, ZA-0501-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Reviewing budget estimates, justification statements, or execution plans for office programs in preparation of budget development; Providing recommendations or guidance to stakeholders on priorities for use of financial resources; and Planning or coordinating the strategic direction of financial and administrative requirements for a program.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
On September 16, a program asks you to certify one-year (annual) funds for a 12-month help-desk and operations-support contract (recurring, severable services) with a period of performance of September 25 through September 24 of the next fiscal year. What is the most defensible position?

 The funds cannot be used because the period of performance falls almost entirely in the next fiscal year, so annual funds would violate the bona fide needs rule.
 The funds may be used if the services are severable and the period of performance does not exceed 12 months, after confirming a bona fide need and that the contract is otherwise properly structured and funded.
 The funds may be used as long as the contract is awarded and obligated before September 30, regardless of the period of performance.
 The work must instead be funded with next year’s appropriation because that is when most of the performance occurs.


2.
A program wants to move funding from one purpose to another. Which statement best distinguishes a reprogramming from a transfer and the authority each requires?

 A reprogramming and a transfer both move funds within a single appropriation; the difference is only in dollar size, with larger moves called transfers and requiring congressional notification.
 A reprogramming shifts funds between appropriation accounts under the agency's general authority, while a transfer moves funds within one account and needs specific statutory authority.
 Either move is permissible without separate authority as long as the funds are unobligated and the new use is a proper purpose within the same fiscal year.
 A reprogramming shifts funds within a single appropriation account and is generally within agency discretion, subject to statutory limits and congressional notification or approval thresholds; a transfer moves budget authority between appropriation accounts and requires specific statutory authority.


3.
Your office begins the year under a continuing resolution. The prior-year enacted level was $9,600,000, and CR guidance limits obligations to 25 percent of the prior-year level during the CR period. A program asks you to load its full annual operating plan now because the work is mission critical. What is the best response?

 Load the full annual plan; mission-critical work is protected during a CR.
 Load the full plan into the local tracker now and enter it into the system of record once full-year funds are enacted.
 Plan to roughly $2,400,000 for the CR period, fund unavoidable and recurring obligations first, defer new starts and discretionary items, and track unfunded requirements separately.
 Load the full plan if the program manager certifies the work supports the mission.


4.
A 12-month labor-hour contract is funded at $1,200,000. Five months into the period of performance, accepted invoices total $640,000, against a plan that assumed even monthly spending. What is the most appropriate first action?

 Analyze whether the variance is driven by timing, startup costs, labor mix, added scope, or rate issues; brief management with options; and coordinate with the Contracting Officer before any funding or scope action.
 Direct the contractor to reduce or delay future invoices until spending returns to plan.
 Request additional funding immediately because the work is mission critical.
 Stop all work because more than half the funds were used in less than half the period.


5.
Late in the fiscal year, a program wants to obligate current-year funds on an interagency agreement (IAA) with a servicing federal agency. The two agencies have executed a General Terms and Conditions agreement (the GT&C), but the specific funded order is still being finalized in G-Invoicing. The program wants to lock in the expiring funds before September 30. What is the correct fiscal handling?

 Executing the GT&C before September 30 obligates and preserves the funds, because the GT&C is a binding agreement between the two agencies that authorizes the work.
 Funds may be obligated only with a bona fide need of the current fiscal year and a binding, accepted order in place by year-end; the GT&C alone does not obligate funds.
 The funds are obligated as soon as the order is entered in G-Invoicing, whether or not the servicing agency has accepted it, because the entry creates the record.
 The funds may be obligated as long as the order is placed before year-end, because the servicing agency will perform the work in the next fiscal year regardless of the need date.


6.
Your office receives an 8 percent reduction to a $15,000,000 operating target. Labor, leases, utilities, and required base contracts total $12,700,000; the remaining $2,300,000 is planned for travel, training, equipment, and lower-priority contract support. What should you recommend?

 Hold the $1,200,000 against salary savings from current vacancies and delayed hiring, so the reduction is absorbed without cutting discretionary travel, training, equipment, or contract support.
 Defer the planned equipment purchases first, since equipment is one-time and postponing it has the least effect on day-to-day operations, and preserve travel, training, and contract support.
 Identify the $1,200,000 reduction, protect the legal and fixed obligations, and present management with mission-risk options to reduce, delay, or descope the discretionary work.
 Apply the $1,200,000 cut proportionally across the discretionary lines: travel, training, equipment, and contract support, so no single activity is singled out.


7.
At mid-year, Program A is 25 percent above its planned obligation rate and Program B is 35 percent below plan. Program A attributes its position to invoices posting earlier than expected; Program B attributes its position to a delayed major award. What is the best analysis?

 Project both programs to year-end; since Program B is unlikely to obligate its full plan after the award delay, recommend moving its expected unobligated balance to Program A so A does not run short.
 Treat both variances as the timing differences the programs describe, earlier invoices for A, a delayed award for B, record them as expected to normalize, and continue monitoring through year-end.
 Verify whether each variance is timing or true execution rather than relying on the programs' explanations, quantify and project the dollar impact, identify the drivers and mission risk, and bring options to management.
 Prioritize Program A, since obligating ahead of plan risks exhausting its funds before year-end and an Anti-Deficiency situation, and treat Program B's underspending as the lower concern.


8.
A contract was awarded with appropriated funds that are now expired but not yet canceled. A valid, properly supported invoice arrives for in-scope work performed during the original period of performance; the invoice exceeds the amount recorded as obligated. How should the difference be funded?

 From the same expired appropriation, which remains available to record, adjust, and liquidate obligations properly chargeable to it.
 From current-year funds, because expired funds may no longer be used for any purpose.
 Reject the invoice, because no funds are available once an appropriation expires.
 Deobligate the remaining balance and return it before the invoice can be paid.


9.
You are reviewing a draft Statement of Work for a labor-hour support contract before it goes to the Contracting Officer. Which of the following belong in a strong Statement of Work for cost-effective contract management? (Select all that apply)
 A. Broad provide-support-as-needed language to preserve flexibility.
 B. Clearly defined, measurable deliverables.
 C. The independent government cost estimate (IGCE).
 D. A defined period of performance.
 E. The source-selection evaluation factors used to choose the contractor.
 F. Acceptance criteria or quality standards for the work.
 G. Labor categories and an estimated level of effort or hours for the support.


10.
A contractor is performing well. The program wants to add a new task related to the contract's general subject area, and the project has unobligated funds. The COR believes the task is useful. What is the best action?

 The COR may direct the contractor to begin, since funds are available and the task is related.
 Let the contractor start and submit a separate invoice that can be approved later if needed.
 The budget supervisor may approve the task because the project has sufficient funds.
 Coordinate with the Contracting Officer to determine whether the task is within the existing scope and whether a modification or a new procurement action is required before any work begins.


11.
An invoice is submitted for services performed July 1-31. The contract's period of performance ended June 30, and there is no modification extending it. The labor rates are correct, and the program found the work useful. What is the best action?

 Approve it; the rates are correct and the work had value.
 Hold or reject the invoice pending review, coordinate with the Contracting Officer, and do not approve payment for work performed outside the authorized period of performance.
 Ask the contractor to revise the service dates so they fall within the period of performance.
 Pay it from current-year funds because the work occurred this fiscal year.


12.
Before certifying that funds are available for a proposed obligation, which of the following must you confirm? (Select all that apply)

 A. The obligation is for a proper purpose for which the appropriation is legally available.
 B. The contractor or vendor is registered and active in SAM.
 C. The funds are available as to time: the correct period of availability, and a bona fide need of that period.
 D. The program manager has approved the requirement.
 E. Sufficient unobligated and uncommitted budget authority exists at the correct fund-control level, such as the allotment or allocation.
 F. The total is within the contract's ceiling.


13.
Which of the following would result in an Anti-Deficiency Act violation? (Multiple Answer - Select all that apply)

 A. Incurring obligations that exceed the amount available in a formal subdivision of funds, such as an allotment.
 B. Obligating funds in advance of an apportionment, or before an appropriation is enacted.
 C. A labor-hour contract's burn rate running ahead of the even-monthly spending plan at mid-year.
 D. Accepting voluntary or uncompensated services to carry out government work, outside the narrow emergency exception for the safety of life or protection of property.
 E. Recording an obligation that consumes most of an allotment but remains within it.
 F. Paying a proper invoice on the final allowable day of the prompt-payment window.


14.
A project has an allotment of $7,400,000. The financial system of record shows obligations of $4,250,000. The program tracker shows valid pending commitments (requisitions not yet obligated) of $980,000 and accepted services not yet invoiced of $610,000. What is the best estimate of funds still available for new commitments?

 $3,150,000
 $2,170,000
 $610,000
 $1,560,000


15.
An NMFS program plans to provide funding to a university to carry out fisheries research that serves a public scientific purpose the agency is authorized by law to support. The program is not acquiring the work for the government's own direct use, and agency staff will be substantially involved, jointly directing the research and participating as it proceeds. Which instrument is appropriate, and on what basis?
 A procurement contract, because the agency will receive the research results and deliverables, so it is acquiring property or services of value.
 A grant, because grants are the standard assistance instrument for funding university research, and the recipient here is an academic institution.
 A procurement contract, because a contract gives the agency the most control over the work and is generally faster and easier to administer.
 A cooperative agreement, because the purpose is assistance for an authorized public purpose, not acquisition, and the agency's substantial involvement sets it apart from a grant.


16.
A center distributes $1,200,000 of common-services costs (rent, security, financial-system support, administrative support) across projects. This year one program took a 20 percent cut, another grew 10 percent, and a third added staff without proportional operating support, so the old flat-percentage split no longer fits. What is the most defensible approach?

 Keep the flat percentage; consistency is the most important feature of an allocation model.
 Shift more cost to the program that grew, because it can best absorb it.
 Reassess the cost drivers, separate fixed from variable costs, model the project-level impacts, document the assumptions, and recommend an equitable redistribution to leadership with the tradeoffs.
 Apply the same percentage reduction to every project, because equal treatment is always most equitable.


17.
NOAA Headquarters needs project-level obligation data by noon. The financial system of record and your local tracker differ by $375,000 due to timing differences, pending commitments, and unposted invoices. What should you submit?

 Submit the system-of-record figure only and never reference the tracker.
 Submit the local tracker figure, because it is more current.
 Submit data reconciled to the system of record, identify the timing differences, and clearly document the assumptions.
 Inform HQ you will be late and submit after every pending item posts, even if that misses the deadline.


18.
A COR receives a proper invoice for services that have been accepted; the rates and period of performance are correct. The COR wants to hold the invoice until an unrelated program status update arrives, but the payment due date is approaching. What is the best action?

 Withhold payment on this invoice while the unrelated program matter remains open, since holding the funds protects the government until the broader issue is clear.
 Return the invoice to the contractor as not yet payable until the program matter is resolved, on the basis that this stops the prompt payment clock.
 Complete the review and approve within the required prompt payment timeframe based on the accepted services, rates, and period of performance, and track the unrelated matter separately.
 Wait to process the invoice until formal acceptance is recorded in the system, since the prompt payment clock does not begin until acceptance is documented.


19.
Build an annual labor projection using 26 pay periods and a 33 percent benefits factor. Employee 1: $108,000 salary, onboard all year. Vacancy 1: $96,000 salary, expected onboard after 8 pay periods. Vacancy 2: $120,000 salary, expected onboard after 13 pay periods. What is the closest total?

 $430,920
 $311,834
 $234,462
 $143,640


20.
You supervise three analysts. Analyst A is strong in budget execution and reconciliation; Analyst B is newer, with strong Excel skills but limited federal budget experience; Analyst C is strong in contract administration and invoice review. This week you have a Headquarters data call due in 24 hours, an invoice backlog with possible period-of-performance issues, and a spending-plan update due in five business days. What is the best assignment plan?

 Have Analysts A and C work the invoice and period-of-performance issues together first, then turn to the data call, and have Analyst B complete the spending-plan update independently, the invoice issues carry the most financial and legal risk.
 Have Analyst A lead the data call, Analyst C triage the invoice and period-of-performance issues, and Analyst B support the data cleanup and build the spending-plan schedules under your review, matching each task to the right skill while all three move in parallel.
 Pair Analyst B with Analyst A on the data call and hold the spending-plan update until it is delivered, while Analyst C works the invoices. The data call is high-visibility and a good development opportunity for Analyst B.
 Put all three analysts on the data call to finish it within 24 hours, then move the team together to the invoice issues, and begin the spending plan afterward. The most urgent deliverable should get the whole team first.


21.
Review the project status below. In 5-7 sentences, state (a) the realistic amount available for new commitments and (b) what you would verify before relying on that number. Show your calculation.
ITEM - AMOUNT
Allotment - $4,500,000
Recorded obligations (system of record) - $2,910,000
Pending commitments (requisitions not yet obligated) - $640,000
Accepted services not yet invoiced - $300,000
A review found a duplicate obligation erroneously recorded against this project - $150,000


22.
A 12-month contract is funded at $1,080,000 with a planned even-monthly burn of $90,000. Accepted invoices for the first six months are: October $70,000; November $85,000; December $120,000; January $140,000; February $165,000; March $180,000. In 5-7 sentences, summarize the issue and recommend action. Show your numbers.


23.
A program submits a year-end contract request and asks for fund certification by close of business today. In 5-7 sentences, explain what you would verify before certifying or recommending certification.


24.
A director asks why one program is 20 percent over its planned obligation rate at mid-year while another is 30 percent under plan. In 5-7 sentences, describe how you would brief the issue and what you would recommend.


25.
A program submits a draft Statement of Work for budget-office review. It states the contractor will "provide financial and administrative support as needed," lists a 12-month period of performance, and gives a single estimated total cost with no further detail. In 5-7 sentences, identify the weaknesses and the improvements you would require.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


26.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙