Position Title
Supervisory - Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSW-12971210-26-LCH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Grandfather Provision: A Rehabilitation Counselor employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (07/21/2020) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0010-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements. 

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

Your application package will be reviewed to verify answers.  

Please ensure your resume clearly reflects specific details of experience, lists complete dates of employment, and indicates if the employment was part time (list hours per week) or Full time to properly credit your experience. Resume/CV required Resume

Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency Requirement: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Educations: A master's degree in rehabilitation counseling or clinical rehabilitation counseling from a rehabilitation counseling program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP). If the applicant's degree was granted prior to July 1, 2017, the program must be accredited by the Council on Rehabilitation Education.
OR
A master's degree in counseling or clinical rehabilitation counseling from a college or university accredited by a national or regional accrediting body accredited by Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA).
OR
A master's or doctoral degree in a related field of study with course content that emphasized rehabilitation, counseling, disability, therapy, health, employment, wellness, or human development from a college or university accredited by a national or regional accrediting body accredited by CHEA.
OR
Foreign graduates with a degree acceptable by the Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification (CRCC).

(TRANSCRIPTS  MUST BE SUBMITTED WITH YOUR APPLICATION PACKET)
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification: Current, full and unrestricted certification as a Certified Rehabilitation Counselor (CRC) from the CRCC (Commission on Rehabilitation Counselor Certification) to practice vocational rehabilitation counseling.

Do you have the CRC certification listed above?

(EVIDENCE OF THIS CERTIFICATION MUST BE SUBMITTED WITH YOUR APPLICATION PACKET)
 Yes
 No


Grade Level Requirements at GS-13 - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaires, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


4.
GS-13 Supervisory Rehabilitation Counselor Experience: Do you possess the completion of one year of professional experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level directly related to the position being filled? Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to: Ability to supervise (e.g. plan, direct, oversee, review work of subordinate staff),assess employee strengths, opportunities for growth, and qualifications to accomplish program goals, adapt work operations, and guide staff; Knowledge of labor/management agreements to effectively manage issues and concerns; Knowledge of applicable accreditation bodies (i.e. Joint Commission and Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities) and their standards to ensure continuous compliance; Theoretical and practical knowledge of a range of rehabilitation delivery systems for the development, implementation, management and growth of rehabilitation programs and services; Knowledge of business administration practices such as managing participant payroll, accounting, budget planning, to successfully operate a rehabilitation program.


 Yes
 No


5.
GS-13 Supervisory, Rehabilitation Counselor Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA): In addition to meeting the licensure and experience for the GS-13 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities? 
(a)  Skilled in program management/administration of a wide range of rehabilitation programs, including such areas as clinical specialties, finance, accountability, oversight of work performed by program staff, consultation, negotiation and monitoring to successfully operate and enhance all programs.
(b) Ability to provide individual and group training, orientation, consultation and guidance within clinical specialization of rehabilitation counseling practice to develop, improve and maintain programming.
(c) Ability to monitor program outcomes using a data driven quality assurance process to make decisions associated with program management and the development of productivity standards appropriate to the service provided.
(d) Ability to translate leadership goals and objectives into well-coordinated and controlled work processes for effective program operations.
(e) Extensive knowledge of all legal guidelines governing the operation of CWT programs, their scope and their effect on clinical programming and service delivery.
(f) Skill in leading others, assess employee strengths, opportunities for growth and qualifications to accomplish program goals, adapt work operations and guide staff.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙