Position Title
Pretrial Services Officer
Agency
Pretrial Services Agency
Announcement Number
26-02(DE) Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 8, 2025 to Monday, December 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic professional requirements and the specialized experience requirements. Select the appropriate response concerning your education/and or specialized experience.


1.
Basic Professional Requirement:
I have a four-year degree in behavioral or social science or other related disciplines appropriate to the position; OR a combination of education and experience that provides you with the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field; OR four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates that I have knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.

 Yes
 No


2.
To qualify at the GL-9 level: I have one (1) year of specialized experience working with individuals in a criminal justice environment explaining procedures and obtaining information; interviewing, monitoring, and evaluating clients; assessing clients; making recommendations in court; routine use of computer applications and/or law enforcement or comparable database systems. OR

Substitution of Education for Experience for GL-9: I have two (2) years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 Yes
 No


3.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade level: I have one (1) year of specialized experience working with individuals in a criminal justice environment explaining procedures and obtaining information; managing, interviewing, monitoring, and evaluating clients; assessing clients; making recommendations in court; managing caseloads; expert use of computer applications and/or law enforcement or comparable database systems. OR

Substitution of Education for Experience for GS-11: I have three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙