Position Title
Supply Management Specialist
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-EHT-FIRENC3-FS4207-911D Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you meet the requirements and possess the experience and/or education needed to qualify for this position.


For the following questions, select the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application, as well as information provided by your references. Failure to respond to the questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience and/or education for the Supply Management Specialist position at the GS-09 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the the GS-07 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as three or more of the following: Assisting in the coordination of emergency situations and establishing levels of personnel and equipment needed to meet the support needs of an incident; and/or Implementing restocking supply levels to meet supply demands; and/or Preparing initial records of work completed, materials used, and costs involved with established fire cache management and inventory plans; and/or Participating in implementing security and accountability measures for all supplies and equipment; and/or Implementing the operational application, utilization, and information integrity of an automated inventory system.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and education (only graduate education in excess of 18 semester hours may be used to qualify applicants for this grade level).
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


2.
Select the statement that best reflects your experience and/or education for the Supply Management Specialist position at the GS-11 grade level. Experience claimed must be supported in your resume. Transcripts must be provided for experience based on education.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the the GS-09 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as three or more of the following: Coordinating emergency situations and establishing levels of personnel and equipment needed to meet the support needs of an incident; and/or Managing activities for the procurement, storage, refurbishment, and shipment of equipment and supplies in support of fire suppression and emergency activities; and/or Assisting with the development and maintenance of cache management plans and incident support policies, guidelines and standards; and/or Maintaining an inventory system for cache equipment and supplies to accomplish logistical support; and/or Preparing reports on cache management and fire loss information for all incidents.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and graduate level education (beyond what is required for a master's degree, i.e., more than 36 semester hours leading to a Ph.D.).
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


For the following questions, select the option from the list below that best reflects the appropriate description associated with the position. Please select only one response for each question.


3.
Which option best describes the duties typically performed in this role?

 Assists in the development of the Cache Management Plan.
 Coordinates ongoing emergency situations and establishes levels of personnel and equipment; maintains extensive records systems to meet federal requirements.
 Prepares accurate records of work completed and costs involved with established Cache plans, implements security and accountability for all equipment.
 Implements security and accountability for all equipment; implements resupply and restocking orders with replacements for material used as it pertains to a National Interagency Support Cache type 2 facility; oversees operational accomplishment of returns and refurbishment including inspection, personnel assignment and work shift establishment to maintain a consistent and continuous flow of material for operational support.
 Coordinates wildland firefighter response within a greater geographic region.


4.
Which option best captures the complete customer base that a Cache typically provides supplies and equipment to?
 Federal agencies
 Federal and State agencies
 Federal, State, and County entities
 Federal, State, County, Tribal and other geographic areas to include other national caches and international incidents
 Solely the agency the Cache aligns under


5.
Which option best describes the advanced duties typically performed in this role?

 Responsible for day-to-day coordination of activities of a National Interagency Support Cache Type 1 Cache.
 Oversees stocking levels and participates in the development of project work plans.
 Prepares and provides customer support and directs the process of supply and logistics capability to Type 2-5 Caches; Provides Cache management with fire loss information within a specific area.
 Implements program operations, operational procedures, decision policies and practices; responsible for day-to-day coordination of activities of a National Interagency Support Cache Type 1 Cache; serves as a contracting officer representative to include large acquisitions for caches and responsibilities around store items; assists in the development and implementation of the Cache management and Inventory management plans.
 Coordinates wildland firefighter response within a greater geographic region.


6.
Which option best reflects the position's responsibility as a Contracting Officer Representative?

 Planning, writing specifications, and procuring large acquisitions for cache equipment and supplies as well as annual contracts for rented and leased equipment.
 Coordinating daily cache operations and ensuring timely response to emergency requests.
 Monitoring stocking levels and directing restock actions using established purchasing methods.
 Providing customer support and overseeing supply and logistics services for lower tier caches.
 Implements program plans for training and safety.


For each item below, use the text box to provide a description of a specific instance from your training and/or experience. In your response, please follow these important guidelines as you write your accomplishment:
Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved...
Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.
Provide the name and a telephone number, email address, or other method of contacting someone who can verify this information. Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating.


7.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in providing costs involved with established management and inventory plans. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).



8.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in providing levels of personnel and equipment in order to meet needs, implemented restocking supply levels to meet supply demands, and/or implemented security and accountability measures for supplies and equipment.  Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).



9.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in maintaining an inventory system for equipment and supplies to accomplish logistics support and/or providing accurate records of work completed, materials used, and costs involved. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).



10.
Please describe one specific instance from your training and/or experience in which you demonstrated experience in providing evaluation of returns and refurbishment ensuring inspection of all returned equipment to determine the need for repair and/or replacement and make recommendations on the need for reports or administrative action to be taken on accountable property. Please list the position and the accomplishment in the validation box below (limit of 700 characters).



Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take an opportunity to review your responses for their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Have you read the "Required Documents" section of the vacancy announcement and understand that failure to submit all required, legible documents prior to the closing date of the announcement may result in loss of consideration?
 Yes
 No


12.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "no" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙