Position Title
Physician Assistant (Only for Current Permanent Employees of South Texas VA Health Care System)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13001877-26-IA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 07, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Kerrville, TX
 B. New Braunfels, TX
 C. San Antonio, TX
 D. Victoria, TX


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This announcement is an internal announcement only open to current, permanent employees of the South Texas VA Health Care System. This Open Continuous Announcement (OCA) is established to enable Physician Assistants to communicate their desire to be reassigned to other Physician Assistant positions within the South Texas VA Health Care System. To keep the applicant pool current, applications expire every 90 days. Applicants to this announcement must update their application every 90 days for continued considered for internal reassignments.


To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements.  Applicants pending the completion of educational, training or certification requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. Grandfathering Provision: A Physician Assistant employed in VHA in this occupational series that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date (9/27/2020) of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a graduate of a training program which is accredited by the Accreditation Review Commission on Education of PA (ARC-PA) or one of its predecessor organizations and do you have a master's degree in any discipline?
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding your educational institution from which you attended.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred/attended:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you a graduate of a training program which is accredited by the Accreditation Review Commission on Education of PA (ARC-PA) or one of its predecessor organizations and do you have a bachelor's degree in any discipline with one year of experience as a Physician Assistant (PA)?
 Yes
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your educational institution from which you attended.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred/attended:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Have you successfully passed the PA National Certifying Exam (PANCE) or are you in the process of taking the exam?
 Yes
 No


3a.
Provide the following information regarding your certification. If you are not certified yet please indicate the expected date and state or territory.

Name on certificate:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete certificate number:
Expiration date:


4.
Do you currently hold, or will you hold, a full and unrestricted license to practice in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia? VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure/certification examinations. This exception only applies at the Physician Assistant-I (PA-I) level.
 A. Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 B. No
 C. No, but I expect to become licensed or certified within 2 years.


4a.
Provide the following information regarding your licensure. If you are not licensed yet please indicate the expected date and state or territory.
Name on License:
Issuing state or territory:
Complete license number:
Expiration date:


SPECIALTY AREA AND LOCATION:  Please review the entire list and select all areas and locations where you would want to be considered for placement prior to a Non-Competitive applicant selection being considered and selected. You may update your selections at any time.


5.
SPECIALTY AREA: Select all that apply.
 Surgical Service (Orthopedic, Urology, Cardiothoracic, ENT, Neurosurgery, Ophthalmology, Thoracic, Vascular, Women's Health)
 Comp & Pen Service
 Physical Medicine and Rehab Service
 Anesthesiology Service
 Medicine Service (Cardiology, Dermatology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Hem/Onc, Nephrology, Transplant Med)
 Emergency Medicine Service (ED)
 Mental Health - Psychiatry Service
 Spinal Cord Injury Service
 Imaging Service
 Other (not listed)


6.
LOCATIONS: Select all that apply
Audie L. Murphy Memorial Veterans' Hospital, 7400 Merton Minter Blvd., San Antonio, TX 78229
Kerrville VA Hospital, 3600 Memorial Blvd, Kerrville, TX 78028
Balcones Heights Outpatient Clinic, 4522 Fredericksburg Road, Suites A-10 and A-88, A100 San Antonio, TX 78201
Data Point VA Clinic, 8410 Data Point Drive, San Antonio, TX 78229
New Braunfels VA Clinic, 790 Generations Drive, Suite 700 New Braunfels, TX 78130-0086
North Central Federal Clinic, 17440 Henderson Pass, San Antonio, TX 78232
North Bexar VA Clinic, 16019 Nacogdoches Road, Suite 101 San Antonio, TX 78247-1128
North East Bexar VA Clinic, 2391 Northeast Loop 410, Marymont Business Park, Suite 309 San Antonio, TX 78217-5675
North West San Antonio VA Clinic, 9939 State Highway 151 San Antonio, TX 78251-1900
San Antonio Pecan Valley VA Clinic, 3418 East Southcross Boulevard San Antonio, TX 78223-1633
San Antonio Randolph VA Clinic, 221 Third Street West Randolph Air Force Base, TX 78150-4800
San Antonio VA Clinic, 7909 Fredericksburg Road, Suite 100 San Antonio, TX 78229-3403
Shavano Park Outpatient Clinic, 4350 Lockhill-Selma Road, Suite 200, San Antonio, TX 78249
South Bexar County VA Clinic, 4610 East Southcross Boulevard, Suite 100 San Antonio, TX 78222-4911
Southwest VA Clinic 2310 Southwest Military Drive, Suite 304 San Antonio, TX 78224-1460
Victoria VA Clinic 311 Spring Green Boulevard Victoria, TX 77904
Walzem VA Clinic 6938 Walzem Road San Antonio, TX 78239-3641
Other, not specified


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. 

Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Some helpful tips:
*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

*Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

*Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

*Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙