Position Title
Fish Biologist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-13046842-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Anchorage, AK
 B. Seattle, WA


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
I meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Fish Biology Series, 0482 because I have:

 Degree: major in biological science that included: (a) at least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology; and (2) at least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences in such subjects as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, entomology, parasitology, ecology, cellular biology, genetics, or research in these fields. (Excess course work in aquatic subjects may be used to meet this requirement when appropriate.)
 A combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirements for the Fish Biology Series, 0482.


2.
In addition to meeting the Individual Occupational Requirements, select the statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Fish Biologist, ZP-0482-2 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-07) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-1) or GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Participating in biological data collection, marine species identification, and verification of collected data; and Aiding in the review of data to ensure quality and integrity of collected data.
 I have one full year of graduate-level education. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I meet the criteria for a superior academic achievement demonstrated by a related bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with one of the following: A grade point average (GPA) of 2.9 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses, or those completed in the last 2 full years of undergraduate study; A GPA of 3.5 or higher based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study, or those courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study; Class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college; Membership in a national Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies. Note: It is your responsibility to ensure your application clearly states how you meet one of these provisions. You must attach a copy of your transcripts showing completed degree and, if applicable, proof of national Scholastic Honor Society membership.
 I have a combination of graduate-level education and specialized experience as described above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


3.
Do you have experience in collecting and processing data and biological information from groundfish fisheries in the North Pacific Region? (Your resume/application materials must clearly demonstrate this experience. Incomplete details will result in your application being marked as ineligible.)
 
 Yes, I have experience in collecting and processing data and biological information from groundfish fisheries in the North Pacific Region.
 No, I do not possess experience in collecting and processing data and biological information from groundfish fisheries in the North Pacific Region.


Assessment 2
1.
Which checklists must you complete in your logbook when assigned to a catcher processor trawler targeting species other than pollock? Select all that apply.

 A. Sample Station Checklist
 B. Halibut Deck Sorting Sample Station Checklist
 C. Salmon Monitoring Checklist
 D. Safety checklist
 E. All of the above


2.
When collecting biological information from a salmon chosen for genetics, which of the following specimens should you collect? Select all that apply.

 A. Sex/length/weight
 B. Maturity Scan
 C. Fin Clip
 D. All of the Above


3.
If you are assigned to a vessel and discover the EPIRB battery is expired what steps should you take? Select all that apply.

 A. Notify the master of the vessel, observer provider and the inseason advisor that the battery is expired and tell them it should be replaced after their first trip fishing.
 B. Disembark the vessel and notify the master of the vessel, observer provider and observer program staff that the battery is expired
 C. Document the problem on the vessel safety checklist in the observer's logbook.
 D. None of the above


4.
What is your number one priority when assigned to a vessel?

 Collecting species composition and biological information.
 Reporting marine mammal takes
 Recording interactions and collect all dead birds listed under the Endangered Species Act (ESA-species)
 Documenting all fishing effort information on the observer and vessel haul forms.
 Safety


5.
What are your responsibilities and expectations when communicating with your in-season advisor?

 Sending a message to the in-season advisor at least once a week.
 Responding to questions from the in-season advisor within 2 business days of receiving the message.
 Contacting the in-season advisor if there has been an injury or illness.
 Sending a detailed description of the sample design.
 All of the above


6.
When collecting halibut viability data in the factory of a catcher processor trawler targeting flatfish, what factors must you consider? Select all that apply.

 A. Viabilities are intended to represent the impacts of normal crew handling practices.
 B. Halibut can be opportunistically collected to ensure sufficient data is obtained.
 C. Viabilities are not collected on CP trawlers targeting flatfish because the fish are left in the tanks for long periods.
 D. Halibut must be examined in hand, with both the eye and blind sides checked using the appropriate halibut viability key.
 E. Halibut viabilities can be collected from hauls not sampled for species composition.


7.
What sampling method is most appropriate for collecting composition data on a catcher processor targeting pollock with low levels of bycatch?

 Multiple small basket samples spread throughout the haul.
 Taking multiple samples throughout the haul by allowing the predominant species to pass by while removing all non-predominant bycatch from the selected sample unit.
 Multiple large basket samples spread throughout the haul.
 Taking multiple samples throughout the haul by allowing up to four predominant species to pass by while removing all non-predominant bycatch from the selected sample unit.
 All of the above


8.
When multiple observers are assigned to a vessel, what role does the lead observer play? Select all the apply.

 A. The lead observer determines the shifts that each observer is required to work.
 B. The lead observer is responsible for presenting the entire data set during debriefing and making needed corrections.
 C. The lead observer will enter all the data into ATLAS so they are aware of what was collected.
 D. When a problem is identified, the lead observer will address any issues with the vessel immediately.
 E. The lead observer is expected to work closely with second observer(s) and provide tutelage as needed to ensure the highest quality data.
 F. All of the above


9.
When a freshly killed walrus is encountered amongst the catch on a trawl vessel what data are you expected to collect?

 The upper snout of the animal including the canines which will aid the data users in determining the age of the animal.
 Deep tissue sample which will aid in the confirmation of the species and sex of the animal.
 A photo of the animal including the full body from several angles
 All of the above


10.
What are your responsibilities related to compliance monitoring when assigned to a vessel?

 Helping the crew interpret a regulation to help stay in compliance.
 Documenting potential violations and completing written statements during the debriefing process.
 Advising the crew on which regulations apply to the fishery they are participating in.
 Investigating allegations to obtain information for written reports.
 All of the above


11.
What sample design is best for obtaining samples throughout a population at regular intervals?

 Simple Random
 Systematic Random
 Opportunistic
 Randomized block design


12.
What is your responsibility when a catcher processor using trawl gear conducts a flow scale test?

 Complete the calculations after the test to determine if the % error is within the allowed deviation.
 Fill out the test form while the vessel crew runs sandbags over the scale.
 Be present to witness the test to ensure it was conducted properly.
 Assist the crew with weights or weighing items during the test.
 Tell the vessel when to complete the test so that it does not interfere with your duties.


13.
What three key elements are you expected to consider when planning a sample collection?

 Random, multiple, large
 Random, representative, consistent
 Repeatable, large, multiple
 Inclusive, systematic, accurate
 Accurate, precise, repeatable


14.
What vessel type is required to carry more than one observer? Select all that apply.

 A. Catcher processor trawler targeting Pollock in the Bering Sea
 B. Catcher processor trawler that participates in halibut deck sorting
 C. A catcher processor fishing with fixed gear in the Bering Sea
 D. A catcher vessel targeting rockfish in the GOA


15.
How often are you expected to test your electronic platform scale?

 At the beginning, middle and end of the deployment
 Once per week
 At the start of every shift
 After the scale displays an overweight fault.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


16.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙