Position Title
SUPERVISORY INTERDISCIPLINARY(SUPERVISORY GENERAL ENGINEER) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
FL-13071363-AF-T5-26-910 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
Read the options below carefully and choose the one that best applies.


1.
Have you ever had a security clearance suspended/revoked?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.

APPLICANT ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENT

This position is open ONLY to current on-board Title 5 (T5) Federal employees within this agency as of the closing date of the announcement.

Are you currently an on-board T5 Federal employee within this agency?

Applicants must answer this question based on their current employment status as of the closing date.

REQUIRED SF-50:
Applicants must upload their most recent SF-50 to be considered.
The SF-50 must reflect your current Title 5 Federal employment status.

IMPORTANT: Applicants should upload an SF-50 reflecting their most recent General Adjustment for the current year.
For example:

Acceptable: Most recent SF-50 showing the current year's General Adjustment.
Not recommended: Submitting an outdated or incorrect SF-50 may hinder verification of your eligibility and could result in you not being considered for the position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Respond to all the questions below. For each question, choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 level, or the equivalent, that provided you with knowledge, experience, education, or training in preparing technical and engineering drawings; developing new or significantly modified methods and approaches to accomplish civil engineering functions; coordinating and negotiating with contractors and other personnel on engineering and administrative matters; and supervising or leading others within the Engineering Occupational Series?
 Yes
 No


1a.
Please describe in detail how your experience satisfies the experience requirements referenced above. 


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes. I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙