Position Title
Statistician
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12970418-RQ-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 01, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. Oakland, CA
 D. Pasadena, CA
 E. San Diego, CA
 F. Denver, CO
 G. Washington, DC
 H. Atlanta, GA
 I. Chicago, IL
 J. Woodlawn, MD
 K. Boston, MA
 L. Detroit, MI
 M. Kansas City, MO
 N. New York, NY
 O. Queens, NY
 P. Philadelphia, PA
 Q. Dallas, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Assessment 1
Do not choose CTAP or ICTAP as your eligibility unless you are certain you meet the requirements AND you have documentation to support your claim. Few applicants, if any, are eligible under these categories.


It is recommended (not required) that you use a computer to apply for this position -- applicants using a phone often miss key information.


If you experience difficulties while applying, use the links on the USAJobs website to seek help. If you're still unable to complete your application, submit a USAJobs Help Desk ticket to resolve the issue. You must also email Careers@ssa.gov with the SUBJECT LINE: "T-7 APPLICATION ISSUE 1297 0418" and provide details of the difficulties you're experiencing (with screenshots if applicable). This email must be received before the announcement closes. Technical difficulties reported after the announcement closes cannot be addressed.


To qualify for this Statistician position you must demonstrate: (1) the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for the federal GS-1530 series AND (2) at least 52 weeks of Specialized Experience.


For GS-11 Only: a Ph.D. (or equivalent doctoral degree) OR at least 3 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. (or equivalent doctoral degree) in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related competencies for this position may be substituted for Specialized Experience.


1.
Indicate how you meet the IOR for this position. Your degree must include at least 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, with at least 6 semester hours in statistics) and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following:
-- physical or biological sciences
-- medicine,
-- education or
-- engineering OR
-- in social sciences, including
-- demography
-- history,
-- economics
-- social welfare
-- geography,
-- international relations
-- social or cultural anthropology,
-- health sociology,
-- political science
-- public administration
-- psychology

 I successfully completed a course of study in an accredited college or university resulting in a bachelor's or higher degree that includes the required 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, with at least 6 semester hours in statistics) and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the fields listed above. *You must provide all relevant transcripts to support this claim. **Since course titles do not always indicate that a course pertains to a creditable curriculum you are advised to highlight qualifying courses on your transcript to ensure that consideration is given.**
 In lieu of a degree, I successfully completed courses as shown in A above that can be combined with appropriate experience or additional education. My experience includes a full range of professional statistical work, such as (1) sampling, (2) collecting, computing and analyzing statistical data and (3) applying statistical techniques such as (a) measurement of central tendency; (b) dispersion; (c) skewness; (d) sampling error; (e) simple and multiple correction; (f) analysis of variance and (g) tests of significance. *You must provide all relevant transcripts to support this claim, as well as a detailed description of your qualifying experience. This experience must be in addition to the Specialized Experience required below.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this series.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-11 must have been gained in a federal position at or above GS-09 OR (if your position is on another federal pay scale OR outside of federal service) by performing duties at a level of responsibility and difficulty equivalent to GS-09 or above.


2.
Indicate how you meet the Specialized Experience for the GS-11 position.
 I’m not applying at the GS-11 level.
 I have at least 52 weeks performing GS-09 level work that primarily consists of : (1) participating as a data analyst/statistician in studies involving statistical techniques and processes; (2) transforming data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS, or SQL; and (3) summarizing projects in writing for a project leader or supervisor. *This experience will be clearly described in my resume.
 In lieu of Specialized Experience I have a Ph.D. in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related competencies necessary for this position. *I will submit a transcript showing my degree. This education must be in addition to the education used to meet the IOR.
 In lieu of Specialized Experience or a Ph.D. I have successfully completed at least 3 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. (or equivalent degree) in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related competencies for this position. *I will submit a transcript showing the qualifying courses I successfully completed. This education must be in addition to the education used to meet the IOR.
 In lieu of the full amount of Specialized Experience or the full amount of Optional Education, I have a portion of each that can be combined to meet the full requirement. *I will submit transcripts to support my educational claim and my resume will describe my experience. Only education beyond the second year of graduate education can be used for this option and it must be in addition to the education used to meet the IOR. (HR will determine if the combination of experience and education is sufficient to meet the requirements.)
 I don’t meet any of the Specialized Experience options above.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-12 must have been gained in a federal position at or above GS-11 OR (if your position is on another federal pay scale OR outside of federal service) by performing duties at a level of responsibility and difficulty equivalent to GS-11 or above.


3.
Do you have the Specialized Experience required for the GS-12 position?
 I’m not applying for the GS-12 position.
 Yes. I have at least 52 weeks performing GS-11 level work that primarily consists of: (1) performing studies involving large datasets comprised of messy data and statistical or machine learning analytical techniques and processes; (2) transforming data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS, or SQL; and (3) summarizing projects in writing for a project leader or supervisor. *This experience will be clearly described in my resume.
 My experience is not reflected above.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-13 must have been gained in a federal position at or above GS-12 OR (if your position is on another federal pay scale OR outside of federal service) by performing duties at a level of responsibility and difficulty equivalent to GS-12 or above.


4.
Do you have the Specialized Experience required for the GS-13 position?
 I’m not applying for the GS-13 position.
 Yes. I have at least 52 weeks performing GS-12 level work that primarily consists of: (1) overseeing studies involving large datasets comprised of messy data and statistical or machine learning analytical techniques and processes; (2) transforming data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS, or SQL; and (3) summarizing projects in writing for technical and non-technical audiences. *This experience will be clearly described in my resume.
 My experience is not reflected above.


5.
I read the IOR and Specialized Experience requirements under the QUALIFICATIONS and EDUCATION sections of the announcement and understand I may lose consideration for this vacancy if I don't submit full transcripts to support my claimed education and/or my resume doesn't clearly describe, in my own words, the duties I perform that meet the Specialized Experience requirement.

 Yes
 No


6.
I understand that selections from this Direct Hire announcement will result in a new appointment even if I already hold a federal position.

 Yes
 No


7.
I understand I may be required to serve a probationary period.

 Yes
 No


Your resume must include: (1) your name and contact information, (2) employer name and position held, (3) full start and stop dates (month/day/year) for each position, (4) full-time or part-time hours worked per week, (5) your grade and pay scale (for federal positions) and (6) a clear description of the duties you perform that relate to the experience required for this position. If you no longer hold a position, it must show an ending date.


You may update your resume at any time during the announcement open period by returning to your USAJOBS account. There you will find a record of your application, the application status and an option to Edit My Application. This option will no longer be available once the announcement has closed.


To verify the status of your application both during and after the announcement open period, log into your USAJOBS account. On the Home page, scroll down and locate your job application. Once the job has been located, click the "Track this application" link on the right under the application date. The page will refresh to display the Agency's Application Information page where you can scroll down and review any notifications the agency has sent you. The Application Status will appear along with the date your application was last updated. For information on what each Application Status means, visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/application/status/.


Complete this application by uploading your supporting documents and submitting your responses to this questionnaire - see HOW TO APPLY for specific instructions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙