Position Title
Case Processing Supervisor
Agency
District of Columbia Courts
Announcement Number
CIV-26-13047251 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 11, 2026 to Sep 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current District of Columbia Courts Agency Employees eligible to apply to this position per Policy 200 and 210?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following responses will be used to determine whether or not you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your resume and documentation must reflect your responses.


1.
I have a minimum of a high school diploma/GED.
 True
 False


2.
I have one (1) year of supervisory experience or have graduated from the DC Court's Management Training Program.
 True
 False


Assessment 2
1.
Select the statements that describe your experience in written communication.
 A. Developing organizational policies and procedures.
 B. Writing technical or non-technical reports, letters, and memorandums.
 C. Completed course work or formal training in written communications.
 D. Preparing external reports, statements, supporting schedules, justifications, and related documentation.
 E. None of the above.


2.
Select the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work.
 A. Responded to telephone requests from colleagues, managers, or clients both inside and outside of the organization.
 B. Provided informal instruction on an organization's operational processes and/or techniques.
 C. Provided on-the-job training to co-workers.
 D. Collected, organized and presented data to internal and/or external stake holders.
 E. None of the above.


3.
Which response best reflects your experience supervising staff?
 I have served as a team or group leader but did not perform all of the functions of a supervisor or manager.
 I have served as a first-line supervisor but most or all staff decisions had to be approved by my supervisor.
 I have served as a supervisor with some authority to make decisions concerning my staff.
 I have served as a supervisor or manager with total authority to make decisions concerning my staff.
 None of the above.


4.
Which response best describes your level of experience distributing work assignments to accomplish goals and objectives.
 I have distributed and monitored work assignments to subordinates to accomplish goals and objectives.
 I have distributed and monitored work assignments to peers or coworkers to accomplish goals and objectives.
 I have assisted my supervisor with the distribution of work assignments.
 None of the above.


5.
With which of the following software programs do you have experience in a professional setting?
 A. Microsoft Office Suite software
 B. Adobe
 C. Case Management Systems
 D. Court Recording System
 E. Other office suite software
 F. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have experience working with judicial staff, court personnel and the general public in a court, legal environment or community service organization or agency?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙