Position Title
Plate Maker - Intaglio - Intermediate
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12989055-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


9.
Which of the following describes your eligibility for this announcement?
 I am a current BEP employee with status eligibility.
 I am a current BEP employee serving on a permanent Veteran's Recruitment Appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance program eligible (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of ability you possess to perform the duties of a Platemaker (Intaglio) (Intermediate), WE-4449-2, without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Plate Maker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work with a high level of independence, seeking supervisory guidance only for unique situations.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Plate Maker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work with minimal supervision, referring only unique situations to a lead or supervisor.
 I have the ability to perform common Plate Maker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work under general supervision.
 I have the ability to perform simple Plate Maker duties. I can follow established procedures to perform my work under close supervision.
 I do not have the ability to perform any Plate Maker duties.


2.
Choose from the answers below the level of ability you have in operating machine/man interfaces and performing daily routine monitoring of plating tank parameters including temperature, pH, density, etc., as prescribed. (MMI)
 I have independently operated machine/man interfaces and performed daily routine monitoring of plating tank parameters, including temperature, pH, density, etc., as prescribed.
 Under minimal supervision, I have operated machine/man interfaces and frequently performed routine monitoring of plating tank parameters, including temperature, pH, density, etc., as prescribed.
 Under general supervision, I have operated machine/man interfaces and performed monitoring of plating tank parameters, including temperature, pH, density, etc., as prescribed.
 With direct supervision, I have operated machine/man interfaces and performed monitoring of plating tank parameters, including temperature, pH, density, etc., as prescribed with direct feedback and guidance.
 I have not operated machine/man interfaces and performed daily routine monitoring of plating tank parameters, including temperature, pH, density, etc., as prescribed in the course of my job duties.


3.
Select from the choices below all of the tasks that you have completed as part of your daily duties related to the operation of machining equipment/tools.
 A. I have operated and programmed Computerized Numeric Controlled (CNC) Machinery.
 B. I have operated a milling machine for cutting intricate parts and have physically separated raw plate from alto.
 C. I have operated Electrical Discharge Machining (EDM) equipment or maintained and operated chrome baths to plate nickel or copperplates.
 D. I have operated cylindrical and/or flatbed grinders to grind a substrate to a prescribed thickness.
 E. I have operated none of the above equipment as part of my daily duties.


4.
Select from the choices below all of the tasks that you have completed as part of your daily duties related to fabrication and the handling of machining equipment/tools/chemicals.
 A. Used hand drills, drill press, and band saw for shop projects and/or used taps and dies to cut threads.
 B. Operated hydraulic shears, punches, a brake press, and/or three roller bender for fabricating.
 C. Used an oxygen acetylene torch for soldering, and/or heat treating.
 D. Handled acids, alkaline, and other chemicals related to the nickel-plating field.
 E. I have completed none of the above tasks as part of my daily duties.


5.
Select from the following choices the answer which best describes the types of training you have had regarding safety practices and procedures.
 I have received all types of training (Hands-on Training, On the job training, Classroom training, and Online Training) regarding safety practices and procedures and independently applied safe work practices to my daily duties.
 I have received various types of training (On-the-job Training, Classroom training, and Online Training) regarding safety practices and procedures and applied safe work practices to my daily duties under minimal supervision.
 I have received both classroom training and online training but have only applied safety practices and procedures under general supervision of a journeyman or supervisor.
 I have only received training on safety practices and procedures via online training methods (e.g E-Learning, Mentorship, Webinar, etc.) and have not applied any of those as part of my daily work duties.
 None of the above.


6.
Select from the choices below the answer that best describes your abilities in the handling, transportation, and storage of various manufacturing materials/chemicals.
 Followed RCRA/OSHA guidelines for handling hazardous materials, operated manual and power lifting devices and forklifts to transport and store manufacturing materials and/or hazardous chemicals, and independently ensured all hazardous materials have proper identification labels for transportation and storage.
 Operated manual and power lifting devices and forklifts to transport and store manufacturing materials and/or hazardous chemicals and ensured hazardous materials are transported and stored correctly following guidance from supervisors or senior team members.
 Operated power lifting devices and forklifts to transport and store hazardous materials and chemicals.
 Ensured all hazardous materials transported or stored within the facility are labeled properly.
 None of the above.


7.
Choose the statement below that best reflects your ability to develop and maintain effective working relationships in a team setting.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to help achieve a project or program goal, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, engaged others in sharing information to identify potential issues and proposed possible solutions, and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to help achieve a project or program goal, provided direction, guidance, or assistance to coworkers, and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal and compromised with others to reach an agreement, settlement, consensus, or solution.
 I have worked cooperatively with others on a team to perform routine duties.
 None of the above.


8.
From the choices below, choose all of the following computer skills and computer softwares/programs that you have used in relation to interpreting or producing technical data.
 A. Maintenance of computer-based log notes and database records.
 B. Mechanical Drawing/AutoCAD and Working from Blueprints.
 C. Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAM) software, such as Mastercam.
 D. Solid Modeling software, such as SolidWorks.
 E. None of the above.


9.
From the choices below, select the answer that best captures your ability to ensure that intaglio plates are prepared, inspected, and documented in accordance with established Quality Control procedures and ISO standards (such as ISO 9001), including verification of line integrity, measurement accuracy, and documentation of defects or deviations.
 I have consistently ensured all plate-making activities fully meet QC and ISO requirements. I have routinely performed thorough inspections, identified and performed troubleshooting on defects quickly, documented findings with precision, and proactively recommended improvements to maintain or exceed compliance.
 I have regularly met QC and ISO standards with only minor, infrequent discrepancies. I have performed reliable inspections, identified most defects, and documented work clearly and accurately.
 I have met basic QC and ISO expectations. Inspections and documentation are generally accurate but may occasionally overlook minor issues or require correction by a supervisor or lead.
 I have inconsistently applied both QC and ISO procedures. I have frequently missed defects, provided incomplete documentation, or required regular general oversight to ensure compliance is met.
 I have not performed any work related to QC or ISO standards.


10.
From the following choices, choose all of the types of equipment that you have used as part of your daily duties.
 A. Geometric Dimensioning and Tolerance
 B. Potentiometers and/or Millivolt meters
 C. Tensiometer Tester
 D. Circulating Pumps
 E. None of the above


11.
From the choices below, choose all of the tools/equipment you have used and/or processes you have completed related to manufacturing as part of your daily duties.
 A. Applied shop mathematics and handbook formulas in establishing needed dimensions.
 B. Micrometer
 C. Dial indicator/Dial caliper
 D. Surface Profilometer
 E. None of the above


12.
From the choices below, choose all of tools/equipment you have used as part of your daily duties related to manufacturing and production processes.
 A. Rockwell hardness tester
 B. Automated Visual Inspection System
 C. Ruler and/or precision scale
 D. PH Readers
 E. None of the above


13.
From the choices below, select the answer that best describes your ability to both troubleshoot and perform necessary repairs on manufacturing/production equipment.
 I am able to independently perform inspections of equipment and materials, diagnose and troubleshoot malfunctions, and complete repairs as needed on a full range of manufacturing and production equipment.
 I am able to use guidance to perform inspection of equipment and materials, diagnose malfunctions, and complete repairs as needed with minimal assistance on manufacturing and production equipment.
 I am able to perform routine inspection of equipment and materials, diagnose minor malfunctions, and complete repairs as needed on manufacturing and production equipment.
 I am able to perform basic inspection of equipment and complete minor repairs as needed under direct supervision.
 I am unable to perform troubleshooting and repairs on manufacturing and production equipment.


14.
From the following list, choose all of the types of equipment that you have safely operated as part of your daily duties.
 A. Dollies
 B. Forklifts
 C. Hand Trucks
 D. Overhead Power Hoists
 E. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙