Position Title
Program Specialist (Transcription)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
377-26-DT-12982582-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current permanent San Diego, CA VBA Regional Office (station 377) employees who are eligible to apply under Merit Promotion (to include VRA and Schedule A appointees), and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you a current employee of the VBA - San Diego Regional Office (station 377) as described above?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position. In addition to the Time-In-Grade requirements above (if applicable), applicants must ALSO meet the minimum qualification requirements in order to be referred to management.


2.
GS-07: At the GS-07 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-05 grade or higher. Please select the ONE response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-07 grade (or higher).
 I have one year in a GS-05 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.
GS-09: At the GS-09 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-07 grade or higher. Please select the ONE response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-09 grade (or higher).
 I have one year in a GS-07 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is described as experience in transcription of medical or legal terminology to include grammar, punctuation, spelling, and the proper formats for various types of hearings.


4.
GS-07: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0301-07 Program Specialist position. If your resume and application package do not support your questionnaire answers, we will adjust your rating accordingly. Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is described as experience in transcription of medical or legal terminology to include grammar, punctuation, spelling, and the proper formats for various types of hearings. Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. Graduate education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities described in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of this announcement. 1 full year of graduate level education or A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher) Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on: 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov. Combination of Experience and Education: A combination of successfully completed post high school education and experience may be used to meet total qualification requirements. To calculate, first identify your total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required; then determine your education as a percentage of the education required; then add the two percentages. The total of percentages must equal 100% to qualify.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service.
 I have one full year of graduate level education, or a bachelors degree with Superior Academic Achievement (SAA). (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and GRADUATE education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. In addition to the skills for the GS-7 level, specialized experience at the GS-9 must document experience providing quality reviews and training for transcription positions.


5.
GS-09: From the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-0301-09 Program Specialist position. If your resume and application package do not support your questionnaire answers, we will adjust your rating accordingly. Specialized experience: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. In addition to the skills for the GS-7 level, specialized experience at the GS-9 must document experience providing quality reviews and training for transcription positions. Education substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. Graduate education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities described in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of this announcement. A Master's or equivalent graduate degree; Two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree LL.B. or J.D. if related to the duties of this position Equivalent combinations of Specialized Experience and Graduate-level education: When substituting you can only use graduate level education you have earned. To calculate, first identify the percentage of required education you have earned. Then identify the percentage of required experience you possess. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. For example, an applicant who has 27 semester hours of graduate level education (i.e. 50% of graduate education in excess of the first 18 semester credit hours earned) and 6 months of creditable specialized experience (i.e. 50% of the required experience) would equal 100% of the required experience for the GS-09 grade level.
 I have one full year, or more, of specialized experience performing work that is in or related to the work of this position as described above and in the vacancy announcement. This experience was equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service.
 I have two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's or equivalent graduate degree (such as LL.B. or J.D.). (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and GRADUATE education as described in "B" which totals at least one year. [To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify.)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.


6.
Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙