Position Title
MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12930179-AR-26-064 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants (USPFO ONLY). What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E5 - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E5 - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E5 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience or training which demonstrates the ability to follow instructions and safely operate the type of equipment required to accomplish the duties of the position.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-08: Do you possess 18 months experience or training which demonstrates the ability to operate and perform operator maintenance on straight-in-line trucks which typically have an approximate gross vehicle weight of more than 32,000 pounds. Experience demonstrating ability to operate truck tractors with semi-trailers or full trailers and motor coaches. Experience operating vehicles over a variety of roads including interstate highways, narrow country roads, and on steep winding grades. Experience driving vehicles without mishap in complicated traffic situations.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a time you were responsible for operating a heavy vehicle, such as a truck tractor with a semi-trailer, in a particularly challenging environment. This could include a congested area, uneven ground, or difficult weather conditions. What steps did you take to select your route, secure the cargo, and maneuver the vehicle safely to its destination?



4.

Detail an experience where you identified a significant discrepancy between the shipping documents and the actual cargo you were assigned to transport. What was the nature of the discrepancy, what actions did you take to resolve the issue, and how did you ensure all records were accurately corrected?



5.

Describe a situation that required you to transport a non-standard, oversized, or special-handling load (such as one needing demilitarization certification). Walk through the process you followed, including any special permits you had to obtain and the coordination required with other units, offices, or agencies.



6.

Provide an example of a complex delivery you managed from start to finish. In your response, please include details about how you performed vehicle pre-checks, planned the route, handled the associated paperwork and logs, and coordinated the pickup and delivery with relevant parties.



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙