Position Title
Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MR)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12848698-26-LI Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The Lead DRT  functions as a lead for a group of DRTs at the GS-09 level and below, providing input on performance, resolving daily workplace issues, and maintaining efficient workflow. Provides a full range of general radiologic imaging exams, has a general knowledge of the different modalities within the diagnostic radiologic area, and is accountable to the next higher-level supervisor. This position requires additional knowledge of superconducting magnets, the physics of superconducting magnets, and how they relate to the human anatomy and the magnetic effect on non-removable devices. Lead DRT operating as an MR Safety Officer working to support and maintain an MR safety program. Duties of the position include management of an effective screening program, development of MRI-safe scan protocols, and training of MR and Non-MR staff on MR safe practices.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you a United States Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist. Do you meet the certification requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE). Do you meet the education requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
Credentialing Standards: Public Law 97-35, the Consumer-Patient Radiation Health and Safety Act of 1981, requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75, Standards for the Accreditation of Educational Programs and the Credentialing of Radiographic Personnel. Essentially, they must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation and is accredited by an organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education and be certified as radiographers in their field. Do you meet the credentialing requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-10: To meet the requirements for the GS-10 grade level Supervisory Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist do you possess At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-09) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

i. Ability to provide technical oversight and assign personnel and tasks to be accomplished in a manner that assures completion of the workload utilizing the personnel to the greatest advantage thus providing the optimal level of patient care within the workday.
ii. Ability to plan, direct, and distribute work assignments to DRTs at lower grade levels.
iii. Skill in instructing and training DRTs on newly acquired equipment.
iv. Ability to plan and project staffing needs.
v. Skill to independently perform general and specialized diagnostic radiologic procedures in advanced levels of complex treatment situations.
 Yes
 No


7.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding or providing a no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


REMINDER: Comprehensive Resume. You are encouraged to build your resume using the Resume Builder on www.USAJobs.gov (http://www.usajobs.gov/) website, but if you choose to use your own resume then you must describe your job-related qualifications that include beginning and ending dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2009) for paid and non-paid work experience, hours worked per week, month and year of employment for each job title listed. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Transcript(s). Provide copy(ies) of college transcripts to support your educational claims. Official or unofficial transcripts are acceptable. All materials should be submitted by the closing date of the announcement. Transcript must include, at a minimum, student's name, name and location of college/university, courses/credits hours; date of degree and degree granted, as applicable.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙