Position Title
Field Unit Local (FUL) Maintenance Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHN-26-13077797-DE-RR
Open Period
Oct 08, 2026 to Oct 17, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised? You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No
Preferences
.
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.
FIeld Unit Hiring Authority
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127] . This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as the following metropolitan area(s) : Camp Verde, Clarkdale, Cornville, Cottonwood, Sedona, Dewey-Humbolt, Prescott Valley, Lake Montezuma, Village of Oak Creek, Verde Village, Cordes Lakes, Munds Park, Katchina Village, Oak Creek Canyon, Black Canyon City, Flagstaff, Mountainaire, Mountain View Ranches, Prescott, Jerome, Mayer, Pine If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No
Maintenance Worker WG-7 MOCA
.
Thank you for your interest in the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-7, position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your experience and qualifications.
1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered unqualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
 I have performed the full range of journeyman level duties associated with the operation, maintenance, and repair of electric and/or water systems as well as journeyman level duties in the following trades: carpentry, painting, electrical, and plumbing. I have performed these duties on my own initiative with only general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I am able to troubleshoot and take initiative to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of a variety of technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in more than one area. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous activity for long periods of time.
 I have experience performing parts of journeyman level duties associated with the operation, maintenance, and repair of electric and/or water systems as well as journeyman level duties in at least two of the following trades: carpentry, electrical, and plumbing. I have performed these duties with some direction, oversight, and/or regular inspections. I am able to troubleshoot to solve problems and accomplish work assignments in a safe manner. I have knowledge of most technical trade terminology, tools, and equipment in at least one trade mentioned above. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous activity for long periods of time
 I have been trained in the tasks and fields listed above and can perform most of the common tasks under the supervision of a journey-level work leader who observes task in progress and upon completion to ensure they are properly performed. I possess a strong work ethic, dexterity and am able to perform strenuous activity for long periods of time.
 I do not meet or exceed the experience described above.
.
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).
2.
Driver's License
 Yes
 No
