Position Title
Social Worker- Mental Health Clinic
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12947635-26-AB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


6.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


7.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Department of Veterans Affairs. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this vacancy. Please choose the most appropriate answer in response to the following questions.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The basic requirements for employment as a Social Worker within the VHA are prescribed by the Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 - September 10, 2019 (https://department.va.gov/employees/wp-content/uploads/sites/63/2025/09/0185-SocialWorker.pdf). The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education, license/certification and/or experience to meet the basic requirements of this position.

Grandfathering Provision - All persons employed in VHA as a Social Worker on the effective date (09/10/2019) of the Social Worker
Qualification Standard - GS-0185 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education (i.e., degree and internship requirements) and licensure/certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Please see the Human Resources and Administration (HRA) Employee Resources Hub - VA Qualification Standards (https://department.va.gov/employees/va-qualifications-standards/) - Social Worker Qualification Standard - GS-0185 (https://department.va.gov/employees/wp-content/uploads/sites/63/2025/09/0185-SocialWorker.pdf) for additional details regarding this Grandfathering Provision.


1.
Basic Education - Do you possess a master's degree in social work (MSW) from a school of social work fully accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)?

You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred. In progress degrees are not eligible. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation. We cannot make assumptions regarding your education.

NOTE: Graduates of schools of social work that are in candidacy status do not meet this requirement until the School of Social Work is fully accredited. A doctoral degree in social work may NOT be substituted for the master's degree in social work.
 Yes, I meet the Basic Education requirement.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Education Requirement. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Education Requirement and acknowledge that I may not be considered further for this position.


2.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Masters in Social Work:
Name of Institution
City and State
Major/Specialty/Program Focus
Month and Year conferred/graduated



3.
Basic Licensure - Persons hired or reassigned to social worker positions in the GS-0185 series in VHA must be licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level.

EXCEPTION FOR THE GS-09 LEVEL: VHA may waive the licensure or certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of state prerequisites for licensure/certification examinations. This exception applies at the GS-9 grade level only.

FOR THE GS-11 GRADE LEVEL: The candidate must be licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level.  **Intern license does not qualify for GS-11 level**

Please select the option that applies to you.
 I am licensed or certified by a state to independently practice social work at the master's degree level. I have attached my active license.
 I am not licensed or certified at the independent, master's level at this time. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 I am not licensed or certified at the independent, master's level at this time. However, I am in the process of taking the licensure/certification exam to become licensed at the independent, master's level and will meet the full state prerequisites for licensure within three years of appointment as a social worker.
 I do not meet any of these criteria and acknowledge my application may not receive further consideration.


4.
Please provide the following information regarding your Social Work licensure.
Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Original Issue date
Expiration date


GRADE REQUIREMENT: Select the statement below that best describes your ability to meet the requirements for a Social Worker position at the GS-9/11 level. Please refer to the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement for detailed information.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-9 Social Worker Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the education for the GS-9 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Ability to utilize a Veteran centric approach when providing interventions and counseling for Veterans, their family members, caregivers, and survivors.
Ability to assess the psychosocial functioning and needs of Veterans and their family members, and to formulate and implement a treatment plan, identifying the Veterans problems, strengths, weaknesses, coping skills, and assistance needed.
Ability to implement treatment modalities in working with individuals, families, and groups to achieve treatment goals. This requires judgment and skill in utilizing supportive, problem solving, or crisis intervention techniques.
Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships and communicate with clients, staff, and representatives of community agencies.
Fundamental knowledge of medical and mental health diagnoses, disabilities, and treatment procedures. This includes acute, chronic, and traumatic illnesses/injuries; common medications and their effects/side effects; and medical terminology.

Do you meet this requirement?
It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit. We cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-11 Experience or Education and Licensure: In addition to the Basic Requirements, qualified applicants at the GS-11 level must possess either the Experience -OR- Education listed below AND licensure or certification in a state at the independent practice level.
Experience - Completion of a minimum of one-year post-MSW experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the field of health care or other social-work settings, (VA or non-VA experience)
-OR-
Education - Possess a doctoral degree in social work from a school of social work that may be substituted for the required one year of professional social work experience in a clinical setting. Doctorate transcript must be attached to receive credit. 
-AND-
Licensure - Obtained licensure or certification in a state at the independent practice level. 

You must submit a copy of an active, valid state certified documentation to support independent practice level. Expired licenses will not be considered. Provisional or intern licenses are not eligible.

Do you possess the Experience -OR- Education -AND- Licensure to meet the GS-11 level Grade Requirements?
 Yes, I meet the GS-11 Grade Requirements as specified above.
 No, I do not meet the GS-11 Grade Requirements. However, I meet the requirements of the Grandfathering Provision within the Social Work Qualification Standard.
 No, I do not meet the GS-11 Grade Requirements, and I acknowledge that I may NOT be considered further at this level.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
GS-11 Social Worker Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the licensure and experience for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of community resources, how to make appropriate referrals to community and other governmental agencies for services, and ability to coordinate services.
Skill in independently conducting psychosocial assessments and treatment interventions to a wide variety of individuals from various socio-economic, educational, and other backgrounds.
Knowledge of medical and mental health diagnoses, disabilities and treatment procedures (i.e. acute, chronic and traumatic illnesses/injuries, common medications and their effects/side effects, and medical terminology) to formulate a treatment plan.
Skill in independently implementing different treatment modalities in working with individuals, families, and groups who are experiencing a variety of psychiatric, medical, and social problems to achieve treatment goals.
Ability to provide consultation services to new social workers, social work graduate students, and other staff about the psychosocial needs of patients and the impact of psychosocial problems on health care and compliance with treatment.

Do you meet this requirement?
It must be detailed on your resume to receive credit. Experience plus dates (month and year) of positions will be evaluated for credit. We cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
* Updated and accurate duties (be as detailed as possible)
* Grade level (applicable for state or federal jobs)
* Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
* Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).


REMINDER - Current, permanent federal employees must recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.
Please check your electronic official personnel folder (eOPF) for your most recent SF-50. HR will not contact you for more info or documents. You can attach more than 1 SF50. All current, permanent federal employees applicants must ensure that they have included one or more SF50's showing current, permanent employment status in the past 12 months.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙