Position Title
SUPERVISORY FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-13059615-AR-26-186 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the USPFO in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the USPFO in Jefferson City, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately; skill applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material; skill in presenting formal training presentations and briefings; and the ability to prepare reports and presentation formats?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the GS 11 grade level that demonstrates experiences in leading, planning and scheduling program work in a manner that promotes smooth flow and even distribution of assigning work requirements; experiences training and guiding employees on finance programs and assigning tasks; xperiences involved balancing finance program work requirements, finance and budget program policies, and providing advice, mentoring, and direction on a wide variety of tasks; and, addressing employee performance issues?  This specialized experience must also include knowledge of pay systems supporting Military Services and Defense Agencies.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a completed undergraduate or graduate degree education from an accredited college/university and was awarded a college degree in one of - or - be a combination of the following disciplines: accounting, business, finance, economics, math, statistics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organizational management?

You must submit copies of college transcripts with the application packet.
 Yes
 No


4.
In detail, explain your experience exercising supervisory personnel management responsibilities.


5.
In detail, explain your experience managing, directing, and executing wide spectrum pay operations.


6.
In detail, explain your experience developing an effective implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for all areas of responsibility.


7.
In detail, explain your experience ensuring accurate processing of payroll, debts, and miscellaneous entitlements.


8.
In detail, explain your experience conducting analysis to determine the effectiveness of operations, compliance with established policies and procedures, reliability of transactions and validity of supporting documentation.


9.
In detail, explain your experience advising senior leaders of findings and recommendations for corrective action.



10.
In detail, explain your experience participating in formal and informal management planning, policy, and decision-making sessions.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙