Position Title
Administrative Law Judge
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26EX12965116DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


2.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


3.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the response which most closely and accurately describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform as an Administrative Law Judge, at the AL-0935-03 grade level.
 I am a [judge/attorney] with over 10 years of legal experience, more than 7 years of which has been litigation experience. I also have substantial experience litigating National Labor Relations Board cases as counsel for the General Counsel, Respondent, and/or Charging Parties.
 I am not a [judge/attorney] with over 10 years of legal experience, more than 7 years of which has been litigation experience. I also do not have substantial experience litigating National Labor Relations Board cases as counsel for the General Counsel, Respondent, and/or Charging Parties.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
In order to be considered for this position, you must have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first professional law degree (LL.B or J.D). Do you meet the above education requirements? Law school transcripts must be submitted at the time of application.
 Yes
 No


3.
To be considered for this position, you must certify your Bar Membership is in good standing. (Your active Bar license must reference Bar number and indicate the status of good standing and must be submitted at the time of application.)
 I certify that I am an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Territorial Court under the US Constitution. I have provided proof of my active bar certification.
 I am not an active member of the Bar in good standing of any state, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, or any Territorial Court under the US Constitution.


4.
As noted in the vacancy announcement, your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
Understand this warning; and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes. I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙