Position Title
Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) (Chief Nurse Anesthetist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-13039243-26-MDR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
In order to qualify for this position as an Advanced Practice Nurse (Certified Nurse Anesthetist) (APN (CNA)) - Chief Educator/Leadership-Management, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as the additional grade-level requirements.

Applicants pending the completion of educational requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until the education requirements are met.

NOTE: Grandfathering Provision - All persons currently employed in VHA in 0610 series and an APN (CNA) assignment that are also performing the duties as described in the qualification standard on the effective date of the standard (1/29/2024) are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade held including positive education and licensure/certification.


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7403(f), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Advanced Practice Nurse (Certified Nurse Anesthetists) must possess a masters or doctoral degree in nurse anesthesia. Nursing education must be from a school of professional nursing anesthesia accredited by Council on Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs (COA) at the time the program was completed by the applicant.

Do you meet the above requirements?
 Yes, I meet the education requirement or am a current VHA APN (CNA) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No
 No, I am pending graduation from an approved, accredited school of professional nursing.


3.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your APN (CNA) education.

Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Level of Education (master's, or doctoral degree)
Month and Year conferred (or expected completion date)


4.
Do you possess an active, current, full and unrestricted license to practice as a CNA or equivalent, in a State, Territory or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia.
 Yes, I meet the licensure requirement or am a current VHA APN (CNA) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No


5.
Provide the following information regarding your APN (CNA) licensure.

Name on License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


6.
Do you possess full and current certification by the National Board of Certification and Recertification for Nurse Anesthetists (NBCRNA) or an equivalent Nurse Anesthetist certification recognized by the COA.
 Yes, I meet the board certification requirement or am a current VHA APN (CNA) that meets the grandfathering provision.
 No


7.
Provide the following information regarding your APN (CNA) board certification.

Name on Certification
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Expiration date


The following criteria must be met in determining the grade assignment of candidates, and if appropriate, the level within a grade. Applicants pending completion of the degree requirements that meet the other grade-level requirements should select "Yes" as they maybe tentatively selected but may not be hired until their degree is conferred.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
APN (CNA) IV, Chief Educator/Leadership-Management Requirements- Do you meet the following?
Education and Experience Requirement: Meets basic education requirement for an APN (CNA) AND Four years of APN (CNA) progressively responsible assignments in clinical, administrative, education and/or research related to CNA practice, one of which is specialized experience equivalent to the APN (CNA) III grade level. At this level, emphasis is placed on strategic planning and administrative responsibilities.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: Must have the ability to perform long and short-term planning goals for their anesthesia department. Chief APN (CNA) functions may include, but are not limited to, the following knowledge, skills, and abilities:
Ability to assume progressive responsibility for planning organizing, directing, and evaluating section and departmental processes and programs.
Ability to supervise staff, students, or ancillary personnel and to ensure proper scheduling and staffing.
Skill to perform as a provider and mentor for unusually extensive and complex anesthetic cases.
Knowledge to participate in a continual audit of anesthesia care and to ensure periodic performance and professional practice (focused and ongoing) evaluation requirements are met.
Knowledge to represent departmental interests at interdisciplinary committee meetings, participate in departmental reviews, collaborate in problem solving and develop quality improvement initiatives.
Knowledge to engage in departmental resource stewardship, evaluation of staffing, equipment, and time value management.
Ability to interpret efficiency data as well as implement and evaluate cost-effective operational strategies.
Ability to prioritize and delegate tasks to enhance employee investment offering opportunities for staff leadership development.
Skill to collaborate and support the development of clinical and educational programs and anesthesia protocols to improve patient outcomes and improve service level performance.
Ability to provide guidance and instruction in preparing others for positions of leadership and ethical practices which impact patient care.
Skill to provide leadership level commitment to foster a safety lifestyle and continuous process improvement.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙