Position Title
Operations Administrator
Agency
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Announcement Number
PML-687-26-13034857-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee DISPLACED from the Department of Commerce?  For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site.
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently work as a Federal employee with the Department of Commerce?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit the documents outlined on the Required Documents site that verify your current employment with the Department of Commerce.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous 5-year period?
 Yes
 No


2.
I authorize the sharing of my application for other similar positions within NIST.
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you learn about this position?
College or University
Advertisement in Newspaper or Journal
Conference or Meeting
Professional Organization
Job Fair
Word of mouth, e.g., from a friend or family member
USAJOBS search
NIST Careers website
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
None of the above
Other


4.
If you heard about this vacancy through a Conference or Job Fair, please indicate which event by selecting from the list below.
Student Veterans of America National Conference
Maryland Community College Week (Frederick Community College, Montgomery College, or Howard Community College)
Colorado Trade School Week (Emily Griffith Technical College or BuildStrong Academy of Colorado)
Maryland Trade School Week (Anne Arundel Community College or North American Trade Schools – Baltimore)
Colorado Community College Week (Front Range Community College or Community College of Denver)
American Physical Society (APS) Global Physics Summit
Colorado State School Week (CU Denver, Colorado School of Mines, or CU Boulder)
Maryland State School Week (UMD, Johns Hopkins, UMBC, or Towson)
Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineering (IISE) Annual Conference & Expo
RecruitMilitary Fair - Phoenix
SkillsUSA National Leadership & Skills Conference
Disabled American Veterans Career Fair – Houston
Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology Conference
High Impact Technology Exchange Conference
Service Academy Career Conference
American Chemical Society (ACS) Conference 2026
American Legion National Convention
DC Religious School Week (Georgetown University or The Catholic University of America)
Denver Religious School Week (Regis University or Colorado Christian University)
Handshake Job Posting
LinkedIn Job Posting (NIST Careers)


Assessment 1
1.
How do you meet the qualification requirements for a ZA-II position?
 I have 52 weeks of specialized experience equivalent to the ZA-1 (GS-7 equivalent), as described in the vacancy announcement
 I have a Masters or equivalent graduate degree
 I have 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree
 I have LL.B. or J.D., if related
 I have a combination of graduate education and experience
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙