Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-12949129A-TSM-0343-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


5.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


6.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


7.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


8.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


9.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


10.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


11.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


12.
What is your current position title?


13.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


14.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7803) 700 P St, Fresno, CA
 H. (CA7462) 855 M St, Fresno, CA
 I. (CA0281)1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 J. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 K. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 L. (FL2476) 1 Independent, Jacksonville, FL
 M. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 N. (GA0010) 2385 Chamblee Tucker, Chamblee, GA
 O. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 P. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 Q. (MD0428) 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 R. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 S. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 T. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 U. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 V. (NY6466) 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 W. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 X. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 Y. (OR6728) 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 Z. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 AA. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 AB. (PR3930) 7 Tabonuco, Guaynabo, PR
 AC. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 AD. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AE. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AF. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 B. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 C. (UT1428) 1973 N Rulon White, Ogden, UT
 D. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 E. (VA0088) 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 F. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 G. (WV0273) 1250 Edwin Miller Blv, Martinsburg, WV


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
GS-13 SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
To qualify for this position at the grade 13 level you must have at least one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes demonstrated accomplishment of a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods and techniques, both qualitative and quantitative; management and organizational principles to apply to programs, projects and studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of operations and means to improve them. Knowledge of the organization and project management techniques to evaluate projects, and studies and the ability to identify problem areas, trends, deficiencies, or other similar factors affecting operations. Your experience must include oral communication techniques to present findings, deliver briefings, and negotiate solutions to disputed recommendations.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience for the GS-13 level?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Under merit promotion procedures, applicants must satisfy time-in-grade requirements contained in 5 CFR 300, Subpart F. Time is credited based on calendar time served in a grade, regardless of the number of days or hours worked.

Please select the response that best describes your time-in-grade for the GS-13 level.
 I have served at least one year (52 weeks) at the next lower grade (or equivalent) of the position for which I am applying. Note: If the position is classified as a 2-grade interval position (e.g., GS-07/09/11), you will need to have served at least one year (52 weeks) at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the normal line of progression for the position (e.g., one year at the GS-09 if applying for a GS-11).
 I currently, or have previously, occupied a position at or above the grade (or equivalent) of the position for which I am applying.
 The position is a GS-05 or below and I have served one year (52 weeks) at a grade no more than two grades below the position for which I am applying.
 I am not currently employed as a federal civilian employee and am applying as a VEOA eligible applicant.
 I meet one of the exclusions contained in 5 CFR 300.603(b) or 5 CFR 335.103, such as Discretionary Reinstatement.
 I have less than one year at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the normal line of progression of the position for which I am applying and/or none of the above are applicable.


3.
From the following options choose the different types of customers you have interacted with in the development and delivery of a program/project and/or an IT enterprise level project/program.
 A. Executives, division directors, or corporate officers
 B. Senior or front-line managers
 C. Co-workers, technical experts, and/or employees
 D. External customers (outside of your organization, unit, group, etc. ) and/or stakeholders
 E. Contractors and consulting teams
 F. A team lead or participants on a team under my supervision.
 G. My immediate supervisor.
 H. None of the above.


4.
Which best describes your experience working with a team?
 Led a team while completing multiple, complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 Assisted team members while completing assignments with competing deadlines.
 Completed multiple complex assignments with competing deadlines.
 None of the above.


5.
Which best describes your experience leading a team?
 Participated as a team member, receiving task assignments and project goals from my supervisor or team leader.
 Served as a team leader, communicating task assignments and project goals to team members and monitoring progress.
 Led several teams, ensuring that team members met project goals and deadlines and evaluating individual team member performance.
 None of the above.


6.
Which one of the following best describes your experience working requests from internal or external customers?
 Led the coordination of responses spanning multiple projects/programs and areas (such as requirement gathering, brainstorming sessions, etc.).
 Led the coordination of responses within my own project/program (such as requirement gathering, brainstorming sessions, etc.).
 Resolved customer related issues on behalf of management.
 Assisted with the coordination of responses within my own project/program (such as requirement gathering, brainstorming sessions, etc.).
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following describes your experience assisting coworkers?
 A. Developed training materials or job aids.
 B. Presented training materials or job aids.
 C. Served as an on the job training (OJT) coach.
 D. Served as a subject matter expert for a project work group in the completion of their task(s).
 E. Served as a mentor.
 F. None of the above.


8.
Which of the following describes your writing experience?
 A. Composed technical documents.
 B. Wrote technical documents using existing templates or guides.
 C. Updated/ revised existing technical documents.
 D. Independently wrote job aids without supervision.
 E. Wrote job aids with assistance.
 F. Independently wrote project plans without supervision.
 G. Wrote project plans with assistance.
 H. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following describes your experience writing technical documentation?
 A. Prepared technical documentation for executive committees (e.g. position papers, business case reports, etc.).
 B. Prepared technical documentation for program managers and stakeholders (e.g. position papers, business case reports, etc.).
 C. Wrote articles for publication in journals, publications, or other professional documents.
 D. Wrote project/program process documents such as standard operating procedures (SOP's), job aids, user guides, and/or manuals.
 E. Created on-the-job (OJT) training materials for use within my immediate office or organization.
 F. Developed and delivered presentations to stakeholders or groups outside of my organization.
 G. None of the above.


10.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience?
 Served on a project as an expert or specialist to represent a specific area of expertise and/or specific function within the organization.
 Served as a leader of a group which was involved in accomplishing special projects, studies, or assignments.
 Served within a group which was involved in accomplishing special projects, studies, or assignments.
 Completed tasks assigned by the project manager.
 None of the above.


11.
Which of the following best describes your project management experience?
 Served in the role of a project manager leading a team of specialists and/or field experts through multiple project phases (e.g., concept formulation, design and deployment).
 Served on a project as an expert or specialist to represent a specific area of expertise and/or specific function within the organization.
 Served as a leader of a group that was involved in accomplishing special projects, studies, or assignments.
 Served as a technical advisor, providing advice or guidance to leadership.
 Provided advice to the project manager.
 None of the above.


12.
From the following options, choose the experiences that apply to you.
 A. Identified costing and/or resources necessary to complete a project/program task or request.
 B. Tracked variance and cost on a project/program task or request.
 C. Created schedules and corresponding deliverables and dates to complete a project/program task or request.
 D. Interviewed stakeholders to document business and/or technical requirements and wrote a requirements document.
 E. Assisted in interviewing stakeholders to document business and/or technical requirements.
 F. Developed the cost benefit analysis/business case for a project or a program (e.g., E300/Major IT Business Case).
 G. Led and/or participated on a team tasked with breaking down high-level requirements into subsets and assigned the resources necessary to complete the task.
 H. None of the above.


13.
Select the description that best describes your experience.
 Conducted research, performed analyses, and formulated recommendations on enterprise-level issues that were broad in scope.
 Conducted research, performed analyses, and formulated recommendations limited to a specific project or program area.
 Conducted research, performed analyses, and /or formulated recommendations on a set of activities that I am solely responsible for producing.
 Conducted research, performed analyses, and/or formulated recommendations on focused activities.
 Conducted research, performed analyses, and proposed recommendations for review.
 None of the above.


14.
From the following options select the communication experiences that apply to you.
 A. Wrote communications, briefings, analysis documents, and reports/proposals on complex project/program related issues.
 B. Drafted responses to oversight, governance and audit bodies.
 C. Prepared presentations by consolidating information written by my team.
 D. Documented findings and action items during project meetings/planning sessions.
 E. Assisted with or independently conducted training seminars for internal or external audiences.
 F. None of the above.


15.
Select all that describes your experience communicating with internal and external stakeholders, customers, and user groups.
 A. Wrote communications, briefings, and analysis documents on complex project/program related issues that I have presented to senior management.
 B. Wrote responses and presented findings to governance bodies or executive steering committees.
 C. Wrote processes/procedures that were used by others in support of long-term changes within the organization.
 D. Wrote reports and/or proposals on complex technical requirements and management issues.
 E. Delivered public speeches and/or wrote speeches delivered by others in public forums.
 F. None of the above.


16.
From the following options select the description that best describes your experience with feasibility studies.
 Led a broad, long-term, feasibility study that supported a recommendation and/or adoption of new methodologies and efficiencies within my program area or for use within the organization.
 Completed a broad, long-term, feasibility study that supported a recommendation and/or adoption of new methodologies and efficiencies within my program area or for use within the organization.
 Participated on a team that was involved in conducting a feasibility study, but have not yet led a study.
 None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


17.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?
 Yes
 No


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙