Position Title
Health Technician (Hearing Instrument Specialist)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-13033175-26-LI Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Experience:
Creditable Experience. To be creditable, the experience must have required the use of knowledge, skills and abilities associated with current Health Technician (HIS) practice. Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment as Health Technician (HIS) in the health care field.
Quality of Experience. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to Health Technician (HIS) experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.
Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience is creditable according to its relationship to a full-time workweek. For example, an individual employed 20hours per week, or on a half time basis, would receive one full-time work week of credit for each two weeks of service.
Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following are the basic requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Health Technician (HIS) candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
CITIZENSHIP: Citizen of the United States. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with 38 U.S.C. § 7407(a).

Are you a United States citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Experience and Education.

(1) Experience. Completion of the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists;

OR

(2) Education. Successful completion of two academic years above high school that includes coursework related to the field: hearing science, human anatomy and physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology or other general healthcare areas.

NOTE: There is no combination of education and experience which can be substituted for the basic requirements

Do you possess the required experience or education required for this position?
 Yes, I have completed the Department of Labor Apprenticeship Program for Hearing Aid Specialists.
 Yes, I have successfully completed two (2) years of academic education above high school that includes coursework related to the field, hearing science, human anatomy, physiology, hearing instrument science, gerontology, psychology, or other general healthcare areas.
 I do not have the basic experience/educations required for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Licensure or Registration.

Individuals must hold a full, current and unrestricted license or registration to practice as a HIS in a state, territory, commonwealth or the District of Columbia

NOTE: Loss of Licensure or Registration. A Health Technician (HIS) who fails to maintain the required licensure or registration must be removed from the occupation, which may also result in termination of employment

Do you possess the required license or registration required for this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
Board Certification. Individuals must hold active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).

(1) Exception for Non-Board Certified Health Technician (HIS).

(a) Non-board certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for appointment, may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate Health Technician (HIS) under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2)(B).

(b) Non-board certified individuals shall only provide care under the supervision of a licensed audiologist.

(c) Non-board certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until board certification is obtained.

(d) Temporary appointments of non-board certified Health Technician (HIS) may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment
 Yes, I currently hold an active board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).
 Yes, I am active pursuing actively pursuing meeting requirements for board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS). I understand that failure to obtain board certification during the two-year period may result in termination of employment.
 No, I do not possess the required board certification and/or I am not actively pursuing meeting the requirements for board certification from the National Board for Certification in Hearing Instrument Sciences (NBC-HIS).


GRADE DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS-05 EXPERIENCE. None beyond the basic requirements.

In addition to the basic requirements, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):

(a) Knowledge of basic anatomy of the head and neck.
(b) Knowledge of basic infection control procedures and guidelines.
(c) Skill in using basic computer software to complete tasks such as using email, creating spreadsheets and word processing.
(d) Ability to communicate orally and in writing.
(e) Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
(f) Ability to maintain stock and supply level inventories

Do you possess the basic requirements required for this position?
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-06 EXPERIENCE: One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade. Duties include but not limited to: Makes routine repairs of all hearing aids delivered or mailed to the Audiology clinic; During clinic hours, meets with veterans on a one- to-one basis to solve hearing aid problems; Provides primary level troubleshooting and repair for veterans who are experiencing hearing aid problems; Effectively communicate with patients who have communication disorders and to triage and communicate services that require attention by the audiologist; Returns hearing aids to a VA contract manufacturer for repair, the incumbent prepares the necessary paperwork and the hearing aid for shipment and makes appropriate entries in the clinic's record tracking system and the hearing aid is returned, the technician verifies operability and will mail the hearing aid or schedules the veteran for an appointment, as appropriate; and Manages stock and custom hearing aids, batteries, assistive listening devices and earmold orders of on- and off-contract devices are the responsibility of this staff member.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs):
(a) Knowledge of normal and abnormal ear anatomy.
(b) Knowledge of hearing aids, hearing assistive technology, hearing aid manufacturers and manufacturer software.
(c) Skill in documenting patient procedures and patient devices.
(d) Skill in providing patient education for hearing aid use, to include assisting patient with hearing aid insertion, removal and hygiene (cleaning and disinfection).
(e) Ability to provide patient education and training regarding hearing loss and communication strategies for various listening situations.
(f) Ability to solve problems or make decisions regarding hearing aids, hearing assistive technology and patient care that is consistent with the documented and co-signed plan of care under the supervision of an audiologist.
(g) Ability to prepare patient, equipment, and/or environment for audiology procedures.
(h) Ability to provide triage of patient telephone calls or audiology requests.

Do you possess the experience required for this position?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙