Position Title
MWR Regional Trade Security and Sales Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12968013 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 21, 2026 to May 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Regional Trade Security and Sales Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess to meet the basic requirements of the 1104 Property Disposal series? If using education to qualify, transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application. If using specialized experience to qualify, it must be clearly annotated on your resume.
 I have at least two (2) full years of specialized experience in the principles and practices of property disposal.
 I have successfully completed two (2) years of graduate-level education in a related field of study.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and graduate education.
 I do not have the specialized experience or graduate education described above.


2.
Which statement best describes your experience managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials?
 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have no experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.


3.
Which statement best describes your experience utilizing market research and mathematical calculations to prepare sales agreements and cost estimates?
 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with utilizing market research and mathematical calculations to prepare sales agreements and cost estimates.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with utilizing market research and mathematical calculations to prepare sales agreements and cost estimates.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with utilizing market research and mathematical calculations to prepare sales agreements and cost estimates.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with utilizing market research and mathematical calculations to prepare sales agreements and cost estimates.
 I have no experience with utilizing market research and mathematical calculations to prepare sales agreements and cost estimates.


4.
Which statement best describes your ability to analyze program operations and evaluate organizational effectiveness?
 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with analyzing program operations and evaluating organizational effectiveness.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with analyzing program operations and evaluating organizational effectiveness.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with analyzing program operations and evaluating organizational effectiveness.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with analyzing program operations and evaluating organizational effectiveness.
 I have no experience with analyzing program operations and evaluating organizational effectiveness.


5.
Which statement best describes your experience monitoring facility operations and applying government or agency regulations to support planning?
 My current position within the Department of War (DoW) includes monitoring facility operations and applying government or agency regulations to support planning.
 My previous position within the Department of War (DoW) included monitoring facility operations and applying government or agency regulations to support planning.
 My current position in the private sector includes monitoring facility operations and applying regulations to support planning.
 My previous position in the private sector included monitoring facility operations and applying regulations to support planning.
 I have no experience with monitoring facility operations and applying government or agency regulations to support planning.


6.

Which statement best describes your written and oral communication skills when dealing with senior management, external contractors, and subject matter experts?

 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience using written and oral communication skills when dealing with senior management, external contractors, and subject matter experts.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience using written and oral communication skills when dealing with senior management, external contractors, and subject matter experts.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience using written and oral communication skills when dealing with senior management, external contractors, and subject matter experts.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience using written and oral communication skills when dealing with senior management, external contractors, and subject matter experts.
 I have no experience using written and oral communication skills when dealing with senior management, external contractors, and subject matter experts.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙