Position Title
Social Science Analyst - Recent Graduate
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-DE-26-12916024 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you wish to be considered under the Priority Reemployment List (PRL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the excepted service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the excepted service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former excepted service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Francisco, CA
 B. Atlanta, GA
 C. Woodlawn, MD
 D. Kansas City, MO
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Dallas, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Merit Hiring Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment under the OIG Recent Graduate Program. This announcement is only open to those individuals who are eligible under the OIG Recent Graduate Program. Please respond to the following questions. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. You must submit the required documentation to verify your eligibility as indicated. Failure to provide the required documents WILL render you ineligible for consideration.


1.
Applicants must have completed within the previous two years a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution; OR must be a veteran, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108, who due to military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduate Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period. Veterans who were not able to apply during the two-year eligibility period due to service obligations have a two-year eligibility period upon release or discharge from active duty HOWEVER the eligibility period may not extend beyond six years from the date on which the academic requirements were completed. Note: You must provide academic transcripts from which your degree was awarded and DD-214 (if applicable). Applicants that are expected to graduate by June 30, 2026 may apply and be considered for the recent graduate program, however you will not be appointed until your degree/certificate has been conferred.
 Yes, I have completed within the previous two years (or will complete by June 30, 2026) a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution. (Unofficial copy of transcripts indicating academic program and date degree conferred must be submitted with application package).
 Yes, I am a veteran, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108, who completed (or will complete by June 30, 2026) a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution and due to military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduate Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period. I was released or discharged from active duty within the past two years, and I completed the academic requirements within the past six years. (Unofficial copy of transcripts indicating academic program and date degree conferred and a copy of your DD214 – member copy 4 must be submitted with application package).
 No, I do not meet the Recent Graduate eligibility as described above.


2.
Please indicate the name of your educational institution, the type of degree/certificate awarded, and the date your degree/certificate was (or will be) conferred (mm/dd/yyyy).


Thank you for your interest in the OIG Recent Graduate Program, Social Science Analyst GS-101-09 position with our office. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a Social Science Analyst, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement. Your resume must support your responses to the following questions. If substituting education for specialized experience, a copy of your transcripts must be submitted with your application package.
 I meet the basic requirement for a Social Science Analyst because I have completed (or will complete by June 30, 2026) a 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor’s or higher degree in a behavioral or social science, or related discipline appropriate to this position. (Copy of unofficial transcripts showing degree earned and date conferred must be submitted).
 I meet the basic requirement for a Social Science Analyst because I have 4 years of appropriate experience that demonstrates I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Resume must support your response).
 I meet the basic requirement for a Social Science Analyst because I have a combination of the education and experience described above that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Copy of unofficial transcripts must be submitted and resume must support your response).
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


4.
From the descriptions below, please select the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements for a Social Science Analyst, GS-0101-11, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for the GS-11 grade level because I have (or will complete by June 30, 2026) 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. (Copy of unofficial transcripts showing degree earned and date conferred must be submitted).
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 grade level, because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which provided me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. My qualifying specialized experience demonstrates experience in the following areas: (1) identifying and applying appropriate research design and methodologies; (2) collecting and analyzing quantitative data (e.g., using R, SAS, SPSS, SQL, Python); (3) distilling complex information into key facts or recommendations; and (4) developing written and oral presentations of the results.
 I qualify for the GS-11 grade level because I have a combination of education and experience detailed above. (Copy of unofficial transcripts must be submitted and resume must support your response).
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


5.
From the descriptions below, please select the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements for a Social Science Analyst, GS-0101-09, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for the GS-09 grade level because I have 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree (or will complete by June 30, 2026). (Copy of unofficial transcripts showing degree earned and date conferred must be submitted).
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 grade level, because I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which provided me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position. My qualifying specialized experience demonstrates experience in the following areas: (1) collecting and analyzing quantitative data (e.g., using R, SAS, SPSS, SQL, Python); (2) distilling complex information into key facts or recommendations; and (3) developing written and/or oral presentations of the results.
 I qualify for the GS-09 grade level because I have a combination of education and experience detailed above. (Copy of unofficial transcripts must be submitted and resume must support your response).
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙