Position Title
Deployed Resiliency Counselor- 25,000 Bonus
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12916884 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0101 - Social Science
 B. 0180 - Psychology
 C. 0185 - Social Work


Essay questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Deployed Resiliency Counselor position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Basic Requirements: 0101
Which of the following education and/or experience do you have in order to meet the requirements for this position in the 0101 series? NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position, if you are qualifying based on education.
 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in behavioral or social science; or related discipline as appropriate to the position, such as Marriage and Family Therapy; Mental Health Counseling; or completion of a degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs (CACREP) AND at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field, including at least 2 years of direct experience in the prevention intervention, or treatment of child abuse or domestic abuse, or the provision of maternal or child health support services.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Basic Requirements: 0180
Do you have a doctoral degree (Ph.D or equivalent) directly related to full professional work in clinical psychology AND 4 years of specialized experience.  NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
Basic Requirements: 0185
Do you have a master's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education AND 4 years of specialized experience. NOTE: Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Which of the following do you possess? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education or an equivalent degree.
 Master's degree in Social Work from a graduate school of Social Work accredited by the Council on Social Work Education or an equivalent degree.
 Doctoral degree in clinical or counseling psychology from an American Psychological Association (APA) accredited university or professional school AND a 1-year APA accredited clinical internship.
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you have licensure/certification by a state or U.S. territory that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of Licensed Professional Counseling, Marriage and Family Therapy, Clinical Social Work, Clinical Psychology or Counseling Psychology AND 2 years, full-time clinical experience post independent licensure or certification? A current license must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


6.
Specialized Experience: 0101/0180/0185
Do you have 4 years' progressively responsible specialized experience in applying principles and practices in Clinical Counseling (such as research methods, group dynamics, motivational psychology, domestic violence, developmental psychology, and family systems therapy)?
 Yes
 No


7.
How many years of experience do you have with applying various counseling approaches e.g. behavior modification, client-centered, rational-emotive, family systems, brief solution-focused, and reality therapies?
 I have more than two years of experience, as described above, providing counseling services within the DoD Counseling and Advocacy Program (CAP) .
 I have less than two years of experience, as described above, providing counseling services within the DoD Counseling and Advocacy Program (CAP).
 I have experience, as described above, within the private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


8.
How many years of experience do you have responding to allegations of family violence, assess safety concerns and provide needed services?
 I have more than two years of experience, as described above, working in a DoD Counseling & Advocacy Program.
 I have less than two years of experience, as described above, working in a DoD Counseling & Advocacy Program.
 I have two or more years of experience, as described above, working in the private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


9.
How many years of experience do you have responding to allegations of sexual assault?
 I have more than two years of experience, as described above, with the DoD Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Program .
 I have less than two years of experience, as described above, with the DoD Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Program .
 I have two or more years of experience, as described above, working in the private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


10.
Do you have experience with preparing and presenting briefs, presentations, and providing training?
 Yes, within the Department of the Navy (DON) organization(s).
 Yes, within the Department of Defense (DoD) organization(s) (e.g., Army, Air Force, Marine Corps) other than DON.
 Yes, within the private sector.
 No experience as described above.


11.
How many years of experience do you have with clinical documentation using an electronic records system e.g. FFSMIS?
 I have more than two years of experience, as described above, within the DoD Counseling and Advocacy Program (CAP).
 I have less than two years of experience, as described above, within the DoD Counseling and Advocacy Program (CAP).
 I have experience, as described above, within the private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


12.
How many years of experience do you have with conducting clinical interviews and providing responses to the high risk clients which includes suicidal and homicidal risks, substance abuse issues and crisis response situations?
 I have more than two years of experience, as described above, working with military families and commands in a DOD Counseling & Advocacy Program (CAP).
 I have less than two years of experience, as described above, working with military families and commands in a DOD Counseling & Advocacy Program (CAP).
 I have experience, as described above, working with families in the private sector.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙