Position Title
Biomedical Engineer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12952975-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1

Thank you for your interest in the Biomedical Engineer - GS-0858-7/9/11/12,  position with the Veterans Health Administration. Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. 

We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume meeting the experience, KSAs and supporting documents. 



Basic Requirements:


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
Education and/or Experience: The individual must meet either item (1) or (2) below to meet this requirement:

Bachelor's Degree or Higher in Engineering. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering. Titles may vary from educational institutions and change over time.

OR,

Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor's degree not listed in item 3.b.(1) above.

Note: Foreign Education-To be creditable for the education requirement, a degree/curriculum completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Such education must be, at a minimum, equivalent to a bachelor's degree, as outlined in Section 3.b. below.
 Yes, I have a Bachelor’s Degree or Higher in Engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum.
 Yes, I have the Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelor’s degree not listed in item 3.b.(1) above.
 No, i do not meet any of the above.


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree:
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


GRADE REQUIREMENTS:  In addition to the basic requirements for employment  the following education and experience criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates:


3.
Biomedical Engineer: GS-7 (Entry Level)

Experience: None beyond the basic requirements.

Education: Bachelor's degree as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1), above, or CCE certification with at least a bachelor's degree not listed in paragraph 3.b.(1).

Assignment: Employees serve in an entry level biomedical engineer career development position. It is expected that biomedical engineers at the entry level receive ongoing guidance from more experienced staff members and perform assignments under close supervision.
 Yes, I meet the experience.
 Yes, I meet the Education.
 No, I do NOT meet the requirements.


4.
Biomedical Engineer: GS-9 (Developmental Level 1)

Experience: At least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level.

OR,

Education: Master's degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1).

OR,

Bachelor's degree, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1), plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, that demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-9 level assignment.

Assignment: Biomedical Engineers, at this developmental level, require direction on more complex tasks. Employees complete technical assignments in the engineering field, under the direction of a senior biomedical engineer and will be required to rotate through, and participate in, the operations of other hospital services. At the GS-9 grade level, employees function with oversight by a supervisor for more complex assignments.
 Yes, I have meant at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level.
 Yes, I have a Master’s degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of study, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1).
 Yes, I have a Bachelor’s degree, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1), plus two full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, that demonstrates the KSAs for the GS-9 level assignment.
 No, I do NOT meet the requirements.


5.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.

i. Knowledge of the principles, theories, concepts, and practices of the Biomedical Engineering profession.
ii. Ability to interpret relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards, and make recommendations to ensure compliance with medical center programs.
iii. Ability to understand the operational needs of clinical services in the health care system.
iv. Ability to prepare material on current technical topics and trends, for presentation to other technical staff and mid-level hospital management, and the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology.

Assignment. Biomedical Engineers, at this developmental level, require direction on more complex tasks. Employees complete technical assignments in the engineering field, under the direction of a senior biomedical engineer and will be required to rotate through, and participate in, the operations of other hospital services. At the GS-9 grade level, employees function with oversight by a supervisor for more complex assignments. 
 Yes, I meet ALL the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at this grade level.
 No, I do NOT meet the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at this grade level.


6.
Biomedical Engineer: GS-11 (Developmental Level 2)

Experience: At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level, and must fully meet the KSAs at that level.OR, Education: Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1).

OR, 

Bachelor's degree, plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1).

Assignment:  At the developmental level, employees function on a semi-independent basis with limited oversight by senior biomedical engineers. They participate in medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, the Safe Medical Devices Act (SMDA), TJC requirements, and assist in the development of an equipment management program at the medical center. Employees may lead medical technology deployments, directly support medical equipment, or participate in research projects.
 Yes, I have the one year of experience equivalent to the next lower level.
 Yes, I have a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree in Biomedical Engineering, or a related field of engineering, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1).
 Yes, I meet the Bachelor's degree,  plus three full years of progressively higher level graduate education in a related field of study, as outlined in paragraph 3.b.(1).
 No, I do NOT meet the requirements.


7.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:

i. Ability to implement and/or sustain an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.
ii. Ability to develop material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare.
iii. Ability to advise staff on emerging medical technology, or research procedures, while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems.
iv. Knowledge of basic project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.
 Yes, I meet ALL the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at this grade level.
 No, I do NOT meet the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at this grade level.


8.
Biomedical Engineer: GS-12 (Full Performance Level)

Experience: Completion of at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level; or completion of a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering. 

Assignment: At the full performance level, employees work under general supervision, with wide latitude to exercise independent judgment. Drawing upon extended professional and technical experience, employees demonstrate an intimate understanding of complex clinical and biomedical subject matter. They serve as institutional resources, working extensively with clinical stakeholders, supporting clinical services by leading market research, technology assessments, integration planning, and implementation of both current and emerging medical technologies. The employee shares responsibility for managing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), network security issues for medical systems, and the information communicated across these systems. Biomedical Engineers at the GS-12 grade level further support the clinical mission by contributing to the continuing education program for clinical staff, helping ensure safe and efficient healthcare delivery. Biomedical Engineers at the GS-12 grade level support the institution by assisting with capital asset and infrastructure planning, to help ensure successful strategic planning. They may collaborate frequently with contracting to execute judicious healthcare technology procurements. Within the Biomedical Engineering Department, the employee provides leadership that ensures high quality and responsive customer service is an integral component of biomedical engineering service delivery. They are highly effective communicators, capable of serving as subject matter experts directly supporting the life cycle management of clinical technology, to include ongoing service, system administration, training, and quality assurance. At this level, employees may assist in clinical research projects in the biomedical engineering field.
 Yes, i meet the experience with the Completion of at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower level; or completion of a post-doctoral research fellowship in the field of biomedical engineering.
 No, I do NOT meet the requirements


9.
 Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:  In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.

 i. Ability to conduct a medical equipment management or biomedical research program that is compliant with applicable healthcare standards and regulatory agencies.
ii. Ability to develop a curriculum for a continuing education program, that address the safe and effective use of medical technology, and/or research devices.
iii. Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device hazard investigations, to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and TJC requirements.
iv. Ability to conduct capital asset and infrastructure planning for medical equipment spanning initial concept, installation, and effective implementation of complex medical equipment.
v. Ability to function as the subject matter expert in the field of biomedical engineering, directly supporting specialized clinical technology, including service, system administration, training, quality assurance, and life-cycle management.
vi. Ability to effectively advise clinical and administrative staff on medical technology, including existing and emerging technology, which addresses viability, long-term suitability, compatibility, and/or safety.
vii. Knowledge of concepts related to computer based medical systems, networking protocols, and information security as it applies to medical technology within VHA.
viii. Skill in communicating and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.
ix. Ability to apply project management principles to deployment of medical equipment and health information technologies.
 Yes, I meet ALL the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at this grade level.
 No, I do NOT meet the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities at this grade level.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: 
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. 

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. 

We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume meeting the experience, KSAs and supporting documents.    
 
TRANSCRIPT REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. 

LICENSE and /or CERTIFICATION   - Please provide a copy of your licensure and/or certification to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted. 

SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/ resignation SF-50. This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50. A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's.  Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.
 
MILITARY DOCUMENTATION REMINDER- If you are a veteran claiming Veterans Preference you must submit the most recent Member 2 or Member 4 copy of your DD-214.  If you are claiming 10-point CP or CPS or XP, you must also submit a copy of your SF-15 and a copy of your service-connected Disability letter that shows your total percentage rating.  Your veteran status cannot be verified without these documents, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documents. 



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙