Position Title
SEXUAL ASSAULT/SEXUAL HARASSMENT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE SPECIALIST-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-010102-13040834-CL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE SPECIALIST, NH-0101-02. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that describes the education or combination of education and experience you have that demonstrates how you meet the basic qualification requirements for the position. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position.
 I have a Bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application
 I have a combination of education and experience that has provided me with the knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have four or more years of appropriate experience that demonstrates I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not have the basic requirements as described in A, B or C above.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE SPECIALIST, NH-0101-02. (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Due to the use of 120-day rosters, this period of experience may be completed within 120 days of the closing date of this announcement.
 I have, or within 120 days, will have 52 weeks (one year) have at least one year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband (NH-01), equivalent to the next to lower grade GS-4 or equivalent in the Federal Service. An example of creditable specialized experience includes: a diverse knowledge of accepted practices and procedures associated with victim advocacy, social services delivery systems, principles, and behavioral theories relating to victim advocacy, sexual assault/sexual harassment, and other acts of interpersonal violence; performing crisis intervention, safety planning, referral, ongoing non-clinical support in serious and complicated cases; conducting assessments of individuals to determine required needs and evaluating safety and levels of risks exercising authoritative judgment.
 I have, or within 120 days from the closing date of this announcement I have successfully completed at least one (1) full year of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position; or I have a Bachelor’s degree with superior academic achievement. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I have a combination of specialized experience and education as described above. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education to meet the qualifications of the position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
 I do not have the experience/education such as described in A, B, or C above.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙