Position Title
CRANE OPERATOR
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-13060930-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Crane Operator position, XF-5725-13 with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Pease review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Crane Operator, XF-5725-13 position.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties moving large, heavy, and/or awkward loads where the crane is near or at its lifting capacity with the operator relying upon feel alone. I am skilled in operating a crane at or near the crane's lifting capacity to pick up, position, and lower objects on a floating plant; using a crane to construct, maintain or repair navigation locks and dams or similar infrastructure (i.e. bridges, buildings, etc). Performing preventative maintenance on cranes on a floating plant. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of moving large, heavy, and/or awkward loads where the crane is near or at its lifting capacity with the operator relying upon feel alone. I am skilled in operating a crane at or near the crane's lifting capacity to pick up, position, and lower objects on a floating plant; using a crane to construct, maintain or repair navigation locks and dams or similar infrastructure (i.e. bridges, buildings, etc). I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common crane operation tasks. I can operate a crane at or near the crane's lifting capacity to pick up, position, and lower objects on a floating plant. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform or have received training in simple crane operation tasks performing preventative maintenance on cranes on a floating plant.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙