Position Title
Lead Wildland Firefighter (Wildland Fire Crew)
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
27-FIRE-P1R2389JC-AFEO-56DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Brent, AL
Heflin, AL
Moulton, AL
Camp Verde, AZ
Douglas, AZ
Flagstaff, AZ
Fredonia, AZ
Globe, AZ
Happy Jack, AZ
Hereford, AZ
Lakeside, AZ
Mesa, AZ
Nogales, AZ
Overgaard, AZ
Payson, AZ
Prescott, AZ
Roosevelt, AZ
Safford, AZ
Scottsdale, AZ
Sedona, AZ
Springerville, AZ
Tonto Basin, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Tusayan, AZ
Williams, AZ
Clarksville, AR
Hector, AR
Jessieville, AR
Mena, AR
Mount Ida, AR
Mountain View, AR
Ozark, AR
Paris, AR
Waldron, AR
Bayfield, CO
Boulder, CO
Buffalo Creek, CO
Canon City, CO
Collbran, CO
Del Norte, CO
Dolores, CO
Eagle, CO
Fort Collins, CO
Granby, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Gunnison, CO
Idaho Springs, CO
La Jara, CO
Lake George, CO
Monte Vista, CO
Montrose, CO
Monument, CO
Norwood, CO
Pagosa Springs, CO
Red Feather Lakes, CO
Rifle, CO
Saguache, CO
Salida, CO
Silverthorne, CO
Steamboat Springs, CO
Walden, CO
Woodland Park, CO
Yampa, CO
Altoona, FL
Bristol, FL
Olustee, FL
Silver Springs, FL
Tallahassee, FL
Blairsville, GA
Chatsworth, GA
Eatonton, GA
Lakemont, GA
Murphysboro, IL
Vienna, IL
Wilmington, IL
Bedford, IN
Tell City, IN
Big Creek, KY
Golden Pond, KY
London, KY
Pine Knot, KY
Bentley, LA
Boyce, LA
Leesville, LA
Provencal, LA
Winnfield, LA
Baldwin, MI
Mio, MI
Munising, MI
Oscoda, MI
Raco, MI
Rapid River, MI
Saint Ignace, MI
Watersmeet, MI
Wellston, MI
Aurora, MN
Blackduck, MN
Cook, MN
Deer River, MN
Ely, MN
Grand Marais, MN
Tofte, MN
Walker, MN
Ackerman, MS
Brooklyn, MS
Forest, MS
McHenry, MS
Meadville, MS
Ovett, MS
Potts Camp, MS
Ava, MO
Doniphan, MO
Houston, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Potosi, MO
Salem, MO
Chadron, NE
Halsey, NE
Campton, NH
Bloomfield, NM
Canjilon, NM
Capitan, NM
Clayton, NM
Cloudcroft, NM
Coyote, NM
Cuba, NM
El Rito, NM
Espanola, NM
Grants, NM
Jemez Springs, NM
Las Vegas, NM
Luna, NM
Magdalena, NM
Mayhill, NM
Mimbres, NM
Mountainair, NM
Pecos, NM
Penasco, NM
Quemado, NM
Questa, NM
Reserve, NM
Ruidoso, NM
Santa Fe, NM
Silver City, NM
Tijeras, NM
Tres Piedras, NM
Truth or Consequences, NM
Franklin, NC
Mars Hill, NC
Murphy, NC
Nebo, NC
New Bern, NC
Pisgah Forest, NC
Robbinsville, NC
Troy, NC
Nelsonville, OH
Pedro, OH
Broken Bow, OK
Cheyenne, OK
Hodgen, OK
Warren, PA
Edgefield, SC
Huger, SC
Mountain Rest, SC
New Ellenton, SC
Whitmire, SC
Custer, SD
Fort Pierre, SD
Hill City, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Rapid City, SD
Spearfish, SD
Wall, SD
Benton, TN
Greeneville, TN
Tellico Plains, TN
Unicoi, TN
Decatur, TX
New Waverly, TX
Ratcliff, TX
Yellowpine, TX
Zavalla, TX
Manchester Center, VT
Blacksburg, VA
Buena Vista, VA
Harrisonburg, VA
Norton, VA
Wise, VA
Parsons, WV
White Sulphur Springs, WV
Florence, WI
Laona, WI
Park Falls, WI
Washburn, WI
Cody, WY
Douglas, WY
Dubois, WY
Greybull, WY
Lander, WY
Laramie, WY
Newcastle, WY
Saratoga, WY
Sheridan, WY
Sundance, WY


2.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine your eligibility for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. THE RESUME AND APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM.


1.
Have you successfully completed the Primary NWCG Core Requirement of Firefighter Type 1 (FFT1) and NWCG course # S-290? A copy of the Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record (or equivalent training document) which contains documented proof certification or attainment of this requirement must be attached to the application.

 Yes
 No


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GW-05 level of this GW-0462 Lead Forestry Technician position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-04 level, Examples of specialized experience include: Served as a skilled wildland firefighter on an organized crew during prescribed burns, monitoring or controlling the fire, and collecting data on fire weather and fire behavior and/or Operated pump and adjusted controls under close supervision and/or Performed regular maintenance and minor repairs to fire engine and/or Independently, or with one or two other crewmembers, carried out specialized assignments such as tree felling, backfire and burnout, and mobile and stationary engine attack.
 I have successful a bachelor's degree or 4 years of successfully completed education above high school (120 semester/180 quarter hours) with major study in forestry, range management, agriculture, or a subject-matter field directly related to the position, or that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as forestry, agriculture, crop or plant science, range management or conservation, wildlife management, watershed management, soil science, natural resources, outdoor recreation management, civil or forest engineering, or wildland fire science (no more than 6 semester hours in mathematics is creditable).
 I have an appropriate combination of successfully completed post-high school education (in excess of the first 60 semester/90 quarter hours) and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for the GW-06 level of this GW-0462 Lead Forestry Technician position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW-05 level. Examples of specialized experience include: Performed and directed others in starting pump engine, priming pump, adjusting engine speed and pump valves, laying hose appropriate nozzles and nozzle adjustment in effective use of water and foam application and/or Performed prescribed fire operations including preparation, ignition, monitoring, holding, and mop up and/or Evaluated initial fire situations, determined rate of spread, potential hazards to property and other improvements and/or Ensured the engine and fire equipment has been kept in full state of readiness for emergency dispatch.
 I have one full year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of the position (such as forestry, range management, agriculture). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I have an appropriate combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


For each item below use the text box to provide a description of a specific instance from your training and/or experience. In your response, follow these guidelines as you write your accomplishment:
Describe the situation -- i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved, etc.
Describe the specific actions you took.
State the outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment.
Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating.


4.
Fire Management - includes the concepts, principles and theories of fire management, including the characteristics, behavior and ecology of fire; methodologies, strategies, and equipment used in the wildland fire system; fire detection, prevention, and suppression strategies; and integration of firefighting resources with all hazard response.

Describe your most significant accomplishment with fire management, please include the position title in the box below. Failure to provide a full, articulated response may result in an ineligible rating or affect your overall rating (limit of 2000 characters).


5.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙