Position Title
Veterans Service Representative (Rating)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
313-13014774-26-ML-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 27, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
10
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
AREA OF CONSIDERATION CLARIFICATION - This vacancy announcement is open ONLY to current, permanent Department of Veterans Affairs employees and current/former VA employees who are CTAP eligible.


Thank you for your interest in completing the online questionnaire for the position of Veterans Service Representative (Rating) with the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Your responses to this online application will be evaluated in making preliminary screening decisions for the position.


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for meeting the time in grade requirement for Veterans Service Representative (Rating) GS-0996-09/10/11/12.


1.
Time-in-Grade - GS-09: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-07 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-07 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


2.
Time-in-Grade - GS-10: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-10 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-09 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.
Time-in-Grade - GS-11: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-10 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


4.
Time-in-Grade - GS-12: Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-12 or higher grade.
 I have one year (52 weeks) in a GS-11 position (or higher).
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select only one response.


5.
GS-09 Grade Level: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as gathering or requesting evidence to respond to claimant inquiries for federal, state, or local benefits in areas such as but not limited to: burial benefits, education benefits, monetary benefits, welfare benefits, housing benefits and various other federal, state, or local programs.
Example of experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Gathering and requesting evidence to build service program case files, respond to claimant inquiries, and identify errors, inconsistencies, or omissions.
OR
Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the experience required to qualify at the GS-9 grade level.
Master's or equivalent graduate degree, if related (You must provide transcripts); OR
Two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; or LL.B. or J.D., if related (You must provide transcripts).

From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Veterans Service Representative (Rating) GS-0996-09 position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as defined above.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.B. or J.D., and my education is directly related to the position. (You must provide supporting transcripts)
 I do not have at least one full year of specialized experience (as described in A, above) or two full years (36 semester credits or 54 quarter hours) of graduate level education (as described in B, above). However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement. (You must provide supporting transcripts)
 My education and/or experience are not reflected in any of the above statements required to qualify for this position.


6.
GS-10 Grade Level:
Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as (1) assisting claimants with applications for federal, state, or local benefits in areas such as but not limited to: burial benefits, education benefits, monetary benefits, welfare benefits, housing benefits and various other federal, state, or local programs; AND (2) identifying errors, inconsistencies, or omissions in federal or state-administered benefits request package. Example of experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Explaining decisions to claimants, customers, special interest groups, dependents and/or representatives in an effort to gain understanding of determinations.
OR
Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the experience required to qualify at the GS-10 grade level.
Two and a half (2.5) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a Ph.D., LL.M. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. (You must provide transcripts).

From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Veterans Service Representative (Rating) GS-0996-10 position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as defined above.
 I possess two and a half years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree. Graduate level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position. (Must submit copies of your transcripts)
 I do not have at least one full year of specialized experience (as described in A, above) or two and a half years (45 semester credits hours) of graduate level education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree (as described in B, above). However, when combined, they equal at least 100% of the total requirement.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


7.
GS-11 Grade Level:
Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-10 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as (1) explaining federal or state-administered benefits decisions to claimants to help them gain an understanding of claim determinations; and (2) evaluating evidence and allegations to draw sound conclusions regarding benefit claims.Examples of experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Determining the eligibility for federal or state-administered benefits, such as: disability, education, housing, medical and/or veterans' benefits.
Applying federal and state laws to process claims pertaining to a service, disability, or benefit program.
OR
Education Substitution: Applicants may substitute education for the experience required to qualify at the GS-11 grade level.
Education substitution of a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree (You must provide transcripts); OR
Three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M, if related. (You must provide transcripts).

From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Veterans Service Representative (Rating) GS-0996-11 position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-10 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as defined above.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (Must submit transcripts.)
 I possess a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education as described in B that, when combined, equal 100% of the total requirement. (Must submit transcripts)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


8.
GS-12 Grade Level:
Specialized Experience: Applicants must have one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level or higher in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as (1) determining the eligibility for federal, state, or local administered benefits, such as: disability, education, housing, medical and/or veterans' benefits; and (2) applying federal or state laws to process claims pertaining to an employment, disability, or benefit program. Examples of experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Processing claims for eligibility for workers' compensation benefits to determine appropriateness and amount of worker's compensation claims.
Performing, ordering and/or evaluating diagnostic tests to identify and assess patient's condition, report symptoms or changes in patients' condition, maintain accurate detailed reports/charts.

From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your level of experience that qualifies you for Veterans Service Representative (Rating) GS-0996-12 position.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-11 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization, as described above.
 I do not possess the education described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙