Position Title
Dental Assistant (Expanded Function
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJA-27-13085724-DHA
Open Period
Oct 09, 2026 to Oct 15, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only DHMTF0123 13085724 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) position with Department of Defense. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. You must (1) have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and (2) be certified as a radiographer in your field. Select the one statement that best describes how you meet this certification requirement.
 I meet the credentialing standards of 42 CFR Part 75. I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND am certified as a radiographer in my field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your certification.)
 I was employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel PRIOR TO the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986). (Note: You must attach evidence with your application of current or fully satisfactory performance or certification of such from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others.)
 I was first employed by the Federal Government as radiologic personnel AFTER the effective date of the regulation (January 13, 1986), and (1) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation; OR (2) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program. (Note: You must attach evidence with your application to prove training, experience, and competence. Examples of acceptable proof: transcripts, letter of recommendation, etc.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes assisting with dental treatments for patients and operating dental radiography equipment for oral x-rays.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
3.
Applicants for Dental Assistant (Expanded Function) positions must have completed one-year of acceptable course work, preceptorship, or other formal training and/or work assignments specifically designed to equip them with knowledge and skills required to perform intra-oral procedures involved in the position to be filled. From the options below, select the one which describes you training background.
 I have completed at least 1 year of courses in a dental hygiene or dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Accreditation that are directly related to the intra-oral procedures (also referred to as expanded functions) that are to be performed in the position to be filled.
 I have completed the U.S. Army's Dental Therapy Assistant Training Program.
 I have completed at least 1 year continuing education courses in expanded functions for dental assistants offered by the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services.
 I have completed at least 1 year of other training comparable to the above in private or governmental hospitals, clinics, or schools that included formal classroom instruction and clinical training in the knowledge and skills required to perform intra-oral procedures in the position to be filled.
 My training is not reflected in any of the above statements.
4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
