Position Title
Supervisory Management Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCJD-26-12950225-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. San Jose, CA
 B. Saint Paul, MN


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position is supervisory/managerial as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory/managerial duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory/managerial probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No
 NA - One year Supervisory/Managerial Probation period was previously completed


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-13 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Management Analyst position with IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit you application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Supervisory Management Analyst at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in establishing, implementing, and maintaining control systems for an automated case management system.

 I have played a support role in the development and implementation of control systems.
 I have analyzed program operations or administration in order to develop recommendations for the establishment of control systems.
 I have established, implemented, and maintained control systems for program operations or administration.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


3.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience interacting with Counsel Business Systems Planning and IRS IT programmers to assess system redesign, security, and systems business continuity?

 I have interacted with IRS IT programmers to assess system redesign.
 I have interacted with IRS IT programmers and Counsel Business Systems analysts to assess system redesign and systems business continuity.
 I have interacted with IRS IT programmers and Counsel Business Systems analysts to assess system redesign, systems business continuity, and systems security.
 I have no direct experience interacting with Counsel Business Systems analysts and IRS IT programmers to perform these tasks.


4.
Which of the following best characterizes your highest level of experience in resolving complex problems for an automated management information system?

 I identified a problem.
 I identified a problem and its root cause.
 I identified a problem and its root cause and developed a solution.
 I identified a problem and its root cause, and developed and implemented a solution that anticipated and avoided potential conflicts.
 None of the above.


5.
Choose all the following statements that describe your experience in project management. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have communicated technical requirements to information systems personnel.
 B. I have monitored funding expenditures for accuracy and appropriateness.
 C. I have organized, coordinated, and prioritized a variety of individual and team-based activities and information systems and non-information systems projects, and worked independently or as part of a team as the situation may dictate.
 D. I have received an award (performance, special act, etc.) for my work in project management.
 E. I have not performed any of the above.


6.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience in conducting process assessments or operational reviews of administrative and database processes?

 I have played a support role in conducting operational reviews or process assessments of Counsel's administrative operations in field offices.
 I have played a support role in conducting process assessments o operational reviews of Counsel's administrative and database operations in field offices and have contributed recommendations.
 I have experience in conducting multiple process assessments and operational reviews of Counsel's administrative and database operations in field offices and have recommended/implemented solutions.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience summarizing and making recommendations for improvement in workflow processes?

 I have no education, training, or experience in performing this task/competency.
 I have had education and training in performing this task/competency but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task/competency on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task/competency as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task/competency and/or I have trained others so they can perform this task/competency or others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task/competency.


8.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of knowledge of the operations, procedures, practices, and basic design of Chief Counsel's automated management information systems and subsystems used by Counsel field offices?

 I have extensive knowledge of all the field subsystems and am generally considered an expert in the functioning of Counsel's automated field environment. I have directed data operators to ensure the effective functioning of the subsystems.
 I have some knowledge of the effective functioning of all of Counsel's field subsystems.
 I have some knowledge of the effective functioning of some of Counsel?s field subsystems.
 I have no direct knowledge.


9.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience authoring and revising guidelines and
standard operating procedures for automated systems?

 I have played a support role in authoring or revising guidelines and standard operating procedures for automated systems.
 I have independently authored or revised guidelines and standard operating procedures for automated systems.
 I have extensive experience authoring and revising guidelines and standard operating procedures for automated systems and have trained others to complete these tasks.
 None of the above.


10.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of knowledge of and highest level of experience in the processes and procedures for supporting field attorneys in all types of their work that are tracked in Counsel's automated management information systems.

 I have extensive knowledge of and experience in the processes and procedures for supporting field attorneys in all types of their work that are tracked in Counsel's automated management information systems.
 I have some knowledge of and experience in the processes and procedures for supporting field attorneys in all types of their work that are tracked in Counsel's automated management information systems.
 I have some knowledge of and/or experience in the processes and procedures for supporting field attorneys in some of the types of their work that are tracked in Counsel's automated management information systems.
 I have little or no direct knowledge of or experience in the processes and procedures for supporting field attorneys in all types of their work that are tracked in Counsel's automated management information systems.


11.
Which of the following statements best describes your highest level of experience producing reports and conducting analyses using data from Counsel's automated management systems and subsystems?

 I have produced reports and conducted analyses using data from Counsel's automated management systems and subsystems for my local office.
 I have produced reports and conducted analyses using data from Counsel's automated management systems and subsystems for my region.
 I have produced reports and conducted analyses with a nationwide impact using data from Counsel's automated management systems and subsystem.
 I have no direct experience in these tasks.


12.
I have performed the following leadership functions (Select all that apply.)

 A. Planning work assignments to be assigned to subordinate employees, including setting priorities and deadlines for subordinate employees.
 B. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems.
 C. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy.
 D. Following up with employees to assure timelines in meeting milestones.
 E. Planning work assignments based on urgency of the issue.
 F. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results.
 G. Reporting progress to senior management.
 H. Evaluating the effectiveness of completed assignments or projects.
 I. None of the above.


13.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection?

 I have extensive experience in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection, and have trained others to complete these tasks.
 I have independently prepared reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 I have played a support role in preparing reports and recommendations, including developing plans and procedures for data collection.
 None of the above.


14.
Choose the statement(s) that describe your ability to communicate in writing to effectively prepare narrative and technical reports. (Select all that apply.)

 A. I have prepared detailed summary reports, including recommendations and possible solutions to program operations problems.
 B. I have drafted correspondence to external parties.
 C. I have independently responded to non-controversial requests or inquiries.
 D. I have prepared presentation materials conveying technical or programmatic requirements.
 E. My written products have been recognized as high quality through a performance appraisal and/or awards.
 F. I have received training to prepare narrative and technical reports.
 G. None of the above.


15.
Have you communicated orally or made oral presentations in the following situations? (Select all that apply.)

 A. Presentations to groups
 B. Training
 C. Executive Briefings
 D. Technical Briefings
 E. None of the above


16.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙