Position Title
SUPERVISORY AIRCRAFT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12914730-AR-26-078 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O1 to O4 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Army Aviation Support Facility 2
 AOC 2: NG employees in the State Army Aviation Office (This includes AASF 1, AASF 2, and EAATS)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Eligibility requirements for Dual Status technician positions in this occupation are based on the candidate's possession of Federal Aviation Administration pilot certificates -OR- appropriate military certifications, military ratings in the main-frame military aircraft of employment, and the required competencies (knowledge, skills, and abilities). An applicant must have a competent understanding of the occupation's basic principles and concepts. Applicants should have a minimum of one year on-the-job experience in the grade (or a comparable military rank) immediately below the next higher level. Do you have these required experiences?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least two years experiences in instructing others in a specific air-frame/military aircraft? Do you have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities; or, in the Air National Guard Operations Groups? Experience in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following main-frame/military aircraft: Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Do you have experience in mission tasking, intelligence reporting, and applying weather information? Experience in supervising and/or filing of flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experience in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning. Do you have experience in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders? Experience in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures, and mission tactics? Experience in coordinating with appropriate agencies to ensure compliance with all applicable safety regulations and programs.

 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙