Position Title
Principal Advisor for Operations
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
DE-12995293-26-TB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)


3.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position SN-00, grade level or equivalent pay band. I have a minimum of ten years of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement or equivalent to include: providing authoritative advice to senior executives on matters of significant organizational impact; leading cross-functional or multidisciplinary initiatives; developing and implementing strategic plans and performance management frameworks; evaluating complex policy or organizational issues; and representing an organization in high-level interactions with internal and external stakeholders.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙