Position Title
Golf Tractor Operator Leader
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13069244 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Oct 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have the skill to operate manual transmission vehicles and maneuver driver-operated machinery in spaces that are small, tight, and confined spaces with small turning radius', hills and steep grades?
 5 years or more experience
 3 to 5 years of experience
 1 to 3 years of experience
 less than 1 year of experience


2.
How many years of experience do you have in golf course maintenance? (Must be documented on your resume.
 5 years or more experience
 3 to 5 years of experience
 1 to 3 years of experience
 less than 1 year of experience


3.
A valid driver's license is required for this position. Do you have a valid state driver's license?
 Yes I have a valid state driver's license
 No I do not have a valid state driver's license


4.
How many years do you have general knowledge of lawn care, ability to operate mowers, hand tools, and maintenance equipment?
 5 years or more
 3 to 5 years
 1 to 3 years
 less than a year


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙