Position Title
Archeologist
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-GVA-Q4-13055684-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 9 location(s).
 A. Blairsden, CA
 B. Oroville, CA
 C. Idaho Springs, CO
 D. Burley, ID
 E. Jerome, ID
 F. Watersmeet, MI
 G. Chadron, NE
 H. Halsey, NE
 I. Alamogordo, NM
 J. Grants, NM
 K. Magdalena, NM
 L. Truth or Consequences, NM
 M. La Grande, OR
 N. Prineville, OR
 O. Fort Pierre, SD
 P. Hot Springs, SD
 Q. Wall, SD
 R. New Waverly, TX
 S. Ephraim, UT
 T. Ferron, UT
 U. Moab, UT
 V. Monticello, UT
 W. Price, UT
 X. Buffalo, WY
 Y. Greybull, WY
 Z. Sheridan, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Archeologist, GS-0193-07/09 with the USDA Forest Service. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position


Basic Education Requirements: This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience needed to qualify for the GS-0193 series. Transcripts must be provided for qualifications based on education. Ensure you mark/highlight the qualifying courses on your transcript. Provide course descriptions as necessary.


1.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the basic requirements for this position. Please select only one response.

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor?s or higher degree in a major field of study that included 3 semester hours in each of the following course areas: History of archeology; archeology of a major geographical area such as North America or Africa; regional archeology; archeological cultures, or sites in a specific part or portion of a major geographical area to acquire or develop a foundation for regional specialization for professional development; theory and methods of archeology (methods include, but are not limited to, typology, classification, sampling, cultural evolution, diffusion, dating, and analytical techniques); archeological field school; AND 6 semester hours of related course work in: geography, geology, or cultural geography; history, histography, or historical archeology; environmental studies; scientific writing (nonfiction English composition); and/or surveying; AND archeological field school.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor?s or higher degree in a related curriculum such as anthropology (with emphasis on ethnology, physical anthropology, or scientific linguistics), history, American studies, or a related discipline, provided the curriculum supplied academic course work sufficiently similar to the requirements in the previous statement (including archeological field school).
 I have a combination of education and experience with courses equivalent to a major in Archeology as described above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the education described above but have four years of archeological work experience that demonstrated a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional archeology. This experience included archeology field experience gained in an archeological field school or other field experience that included a combination of professional experience in archeological survey, excavation, laboratory analysis, and preparation of written materials. Applicants with such field experience should, after additional experience under the direction of a higher-grade archeologist, be able to demonstrate the ability to be a crew chief, directing the work of others at a single location as a part of a larger archeological project.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


This section will be used to determine if you meet the specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING


2.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the specialized experience requirements for the Archeologist, GS-0193-07 position. Please select only one response.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level performing archeological work. Qualifying specialized experience includes at least one or more of the following: Conducted routine field reconnaissance searches, identified and marked archeological sites, prepared site location maps, recorded findings, photographed artifact findings, and prepared sites sketches as necessary; and/or Assisted in searching for and examining historical records and findings of other archeological experts.
 I have successfully completed at least one year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of graduate education leading toward a Master?s degree or higher that included coursework directly related to this position.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and specialized experience, courses equivalent to a major in Archeology as described above, plus appropriate technical experience or additional education.
 I Have Superior Academic Achievement (to determine eligibility, go to: http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/policy/ApplicationOfStds-04.asp). The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above. From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the specialized experience requirements for the Archeologist, GS-0193-09 position. Please select only one response.


3.
From the statements below, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the specialized experience requirements for the Archeologist, GS-0193-09 position. Please select only one response.

 I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level performing archeological work. Qualifying specialized experience includes at least one or more of the following: Assisted in conducting background studies and document reviews pertaining to archeological project development; Participated in archeological survey and site evaluation work and preparation of technical reports; Interpreted cultural resources to public contacts in one-on-one conversations; Received formal and on-the-job instructions and training on the practical application of archeological principles, theories, methods, practices, and techniques; and/or Developed and coordinated networks and contacts beneficial to the successful performance of archeological work assignments, such as interacting technically with colleagues and supervisors, and demonstrating the ability to work cooperatively with other persons.
 I have successfully completed 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master?s degree or have received a master?s or equivalent graduate degree in archeology or directly related coursework.
 I have a combination of graduate level education (beyond 18 semester hours) and specialized experience that is directly related to this position that together meets the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


This section will be used to determine your qualification for placement in the quality group based on your experience. For each item below, in your own words, do not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Describe a specific instance from your training and/or experience. Your response must include:
1. The situation or assignment, i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved;
2. The specific actions you took;
3. The outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment;
4. Your position title at the time; and
5. Provide the name and contact information for someone who can verify each accomplishment.


4.
Describe a specific situation where you applied your knowledge of historical events, cultural indicators, or preservation and archival techniques during an archaeological or heritage resource activity. What actions did you take to interpret or protect the cultural materials, how much supervision or guidance did you need, and what was the outcome of your involvement?


5.
Provide the contact name and phone number or email address of an individual who can verify this accomplishment.



6.
Tell us about a time when you used technical knowledge or procedures such as survey methods, mapping tools, documentation standards, or regulatory requirements to complete an archaeology or cultural resource task. What actions did you take, how much supervision or guidance did you need, and what was the result of your technical decisions?



7.
Provide the contact name and phone number or email address of an individual who can verify this accomplishment.



8.
Describe a situation where you had to orally present archaeological or cultural resource information to a group or individual. How did you adjust your message to fit the audience and the nature of the information, what actions did you take during the presentation or discussion, and what was the final outcome?



9.
Provide the contact name and phone number or email address of an individual who can verify this accomplishment.



10.
Describe a specific situation where you needed to express archaeological or cultural resource information in writing-such as reports, summaries, evaluations, or correspondence. What actions did you take to ensure the writing was clear, succinct, and well organized, and what was the result or impact of your written product?



11.
Provide the contact name and phone number or email address of an individual who can verify this accomplishment.



12.
Provide an example of a time when you organized archaeological or heritage resource work, set priorities, or developed short or long term goals for a project. What actions did you take to coordinate with others, monitor progress, or evaluate results, and what was the outcome of your planning?



13.
Provide the contact name and phone number or email address of an individual who can verify this accomplishment.



14.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, and degree.

 I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of college.
 I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 I am/(was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g., M.A. or Ph.D.).
 I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 None of the above.


15.
Required
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding "No" to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙