Position Title
Registered Nurse - Current Permanent South Texas VAHCS Bargaining Unit Employees Only
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12950943-26-AC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to Apr 29, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Balcones Heights, TX
 B. Kerrville, TX
 C. San Antonio, TX
 D. Victoria, TX


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


4.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This announcement is an internal announcement only open to current permanent employees of the South Texas VA Health Care System.


This OCA is established to enable Registered Nurses to communicate their desire to be reassigned to other RN positions within the South Texas VA Health Care System. To keep the applicant pool current, applications expire every 90 days. Applicants to this OCA should update their application every 90 days to continue to be considered for internal reassignments.


1.
I understand to remain active in this announcement, I must update my application package every 90 days.

 Yes
 No


This section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. READ ALL ANSWERS CAREFULLY BEFORE RESPONDING, FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. Please choose the best answer to determine your eligibility for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I am a current permanent employee of the South Texas VA Health Care System

 Yes
 No


3.
I am a past or current Health Professional Scholarship Program (HPSP) recipient.

 Yes, please provide details in the narrative below.
 No


NOTE: For the Education question below, if you are a Registered Nurse on a Current Permanent appointment in the Department of Veterans Affairs select answer D. to be properly rated for your eligibility.


4.
Education: Select one statement below that best describes your professional nursing school education. If you are a Current Permanent Appointment Registered Nurse select D. NOTE: If your school was accredited by ACEN or CCNE at the time of your graduation, but is no longer listed on the websites, or has changed names, you must provide documentation of accreditation with your application packet. Failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.

 I have graduated from a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate State agency and accredited by either: a) The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN); or b) The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE).
 I am a Graduate from a foreign school of professional nursing. (Possession of current, full, active, and unrestricted RN license will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of professional nursing.)
 I have not graduated from a school accredited by either: a) The Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN); or b) The Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), but which was regionally accredited, or State approved at the time of graduation.
 I am currently on a Permanent Appointment as a Registered Nurse in the South Texas VA Health Care System.
 None of the above.


5.
Provide the following information regarding your education: School attended, location of school, degree obtained, and date it was awarded.



6.
Licensure: I possess a current, full, active, and unrestricted license as a graduate professional nurse in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of the U.S. or in the District of Columbia.

 Yes
 No (Disqualifying response)


7.
Provide the following information here regarding your licensure (active and expired): License type, state issued, License number, date of original issuance, date of expiration.



8.
Education: Select the item which describes your highest level of nursing education.

 Diploma
 Associate Degree
 Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN)
 Master of Science in Nursing (MSN)
 Post Masters Certificate
 Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)


Some areas in this announcement may require the RNs to travel to meet the duties of the position. The ability to travel between sites and VA facilities requires access to a reliable means of transportation or may require an unrestricted motor vehicle operator's license issued by a state.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
I meet the requirement for a driver's license and/or I have access to a reliable means of transportation to fulfill the duties of positions that have this requirement

 Yes
 No


This section includes all the South Texas VA Health Care System areas where Bargaining Unit Registered Nurses are employed. Please review the entire list and select all areas and locations where you would want to be considered for placement prior to a Non-Competitive applicant selection being considered and selected. You may update this list at any time


10.
Critical Care, ED, and Specialty
 A. Medical ICU/Rapid Response
 B. Surgical ICU/Coronary Care Unit
 C. ED
 D. Cardiac Cath Lab and Heart Station
 E. Infusion and Observation Unit
 F. Progressive Care Unit
 G. Chemo/Rad Oncology
 H. Hemodialysis
 I. Bartter Research Unit
 J. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 K. No interest currently


11.
Mental Health

 A. Behavioral Health Interdisciplinary Program (BHIP)
 B. Substance Abuse Treatment and Residential Program
 C. Intensive Community Mental Health Recovery (ICMHR)
 D. Inpatient Mental Health RN
 E. Primary Care Mental Health Integration (PCMHI) Care Manager
 F. Transcranial Magnetic Simulation
 G. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 H. No interest currently


12.
Perioperative Care

 A. OR
 B. PACU
 C. IR
 D. Surgical Clinics
 E. Surgical Specialty Clinics
 F. Ambulatory Surgery
 G. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 H. No interest currently


13.
Inpatient

 A. Med/Surg
 B. Critical Care
 C. San Antonio Community Living Center
 D. Kerrville Community Living Center
 E. Spinal Cord Injury Center
 F. Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center
 G. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 H. No interest currently


14.
Patient Administration Services

 A. Community Care RN
 B. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 C. No interest currently


15.
Nursing and Hospital Education

 A. Nurse Educator
 B. Research Nurse
 C. Hospital Education and Simulation
 D. RN Transition-to-Practice (RNTTP)
 E. Graduate Nurse Technicians (GNT)
 F. Student Nurse Technician (SNT)
 G. VA Student Trainee Experience Program (STEP)
 H. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 I. No interest currently


16.
Quality, Safety and Service

 A. Patient Safety Clinician Registered Nurse
 B. Risk Management/Peer Review Coordinator- Registered Nurse
 C. Infection Prevention and Control Clinicians
 D. Quality Management Clinicians
 E. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 F. No interest currently


17.
Home and Community Based Care/Extended Care/GERI Line

 A. Community Nursing Homes- Related Programs
 B. Home Based Primary Care
 C. Caregiver Support
 D. Home Telehealth
 E. Care Coordination
 F. Medical Foster Home
 G. Community Adult Day Health Care
 H. COVID/Convalescence Programs
 I. Complex Transitional Care Program
 J. Hospital in Home
 K. Home Oxygen Program
 L. Veteran Direct-Home and Community Based Services
 M. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 N. No interest currently


18.
Outpatient Clinics

 A. RN Specialty Clinics/Float
 B. Occupational Health/Specialty Clinic RN
 C. RN Primary Care (Care Manager/Care Coordinator/PACT/Float)
 D. Women's Health Care Coordinator
 E. Women's Health Care Manager
 F. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 G. No interest currently


19.
Other

 A. Wound Care
 B. Case Management
 C. Clinical Documentation Improvement Educator (CDIE)
 D. Utilization Management
 E. Bed flow Coordinator
 F. Falls Coordinator
 G. Safe Patient Handling and Mobility Coordinator
 H. Nurse Recruiter
 I. Nursing Excellence Coordinator
 J. Nurse Informaticist
 K. Whole Health Program
 L. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 M. No interest currently


20.
Locations (Multiple locations select all that apply)

 A. Audie L. Murphy Campus
 B. Data Point VA Clinic
 C. Balcones Heights VA Clinic
 D. Shavano Park VA Clinic
 E. North Central Federal VA Clinic
 F. North Bexar VA Clinic
 G. North East Bexar VA Clinic
 H. South Bexar County VA Clinic
 I. Kerrville, VA Medical Center
 J. North West Health Care Center
 K. Victoria Outpatient Clinic
 L. ALMC-Specialty Clinic/IMC
 M. Other position within this group, but not specified above
 N. No interest currently


SF-50 - Current VA Federal Employee of the South Texas VA Health Care System, must submit a copy of the most recent and highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (Not an award SF50)


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.

Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing required documents will cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses. By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate.

Helpful tips:

Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2020 to April 2025)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference must also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)

Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration required at the time of application (as applicable).

Helpful Links
https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/

https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙