Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
Office of Inspector General
Announcement Number
HHS-OIG-DE-26-12950712 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Do you wish to be considered under the Priority Reemployment List (PRL) eligibility? You may qualify for this eligibility if any of the statements apply to you:

1) Are you a current HHS employee in the excepted service with a specific notice of RIF separation or a Certificate of Expected Separation?
OR
2) Are you a former HHS employee in the excepted service separated by Reduction in Force (RIF)?
OR
3) A former excepted service employee fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than 1 year?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or higher than the grade level of the vacancy
the promotion potential (full performance level) of the position you are being separated from is equal to or higher than the promotion potential of the vacancy, and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility for option 1); you must submit your RIF separation notice or Certificate of Expected Separation, your most recent SF-50 noting your current position, grade level, and duty location, and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 2); you must submit your RIF separation SF-50 and a copy of your most recent performance rating.
To verify your eligibility for option 3); you must submit documentation showing injury compensation benefits cease or the Department of Labor's denial of an appeal for continuation of injury compensation benefits.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Los Angeles, CA
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Atlanta, GA
 D. Chicago, IL
 E. Dallas, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14
15


Assessment 1
Respond to the following question. Mark only one response for each question. Any experience claimed in response to the following questions MUST be supported by information in your written application. This information must be SPECIFIC, (i.e. duties, responsibilities, and accomplishments). Failure to provide this supporting documentation may result in receipt of a lower or ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you graduated with a Juris Doctorate (JD) or Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) from a law school accredited by the American Bar Association?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a member in good standing of a State Bar or the Bar of a territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico?
 Yes
 No


3.
List all jurisdictions where you are currently a member of the Bar.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-15: Do you have four (4) years of professional legal experience post bar admission, with one year equivalent to the GS-14 grade level? Experience may be outside of the Federal government.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-14: Do you have three (3) years of professional legal experience post bar admission, with one year equivalent to the GS-13 grade level? Experience may be outside of the Federal government.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-13: Do you have two (2) years of professional legal experience post bar admission, with one year equivalent to the GS-12 grade level? Experience may be outside of the Federal government.
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have specialized experience conducting and overseeing the processing of responses to requests for documents/information in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and/or Privacy Act; and experience providing authoritative legal advice, guidance and assistance related to requests for disclosure of documents/information under the FOIA and/or Privacy Act?
 Yes
 No


8.
Indicate the positions on your resume which demonstrates the specialized experience (position title, employer, and dates held).


9.
From the following list please identify each Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) related function that you have performed. Select all that apply.
 I have reviewed and responded to FOIA requests.
 I have provided advice and assistance related to FOIA policies, procedures, etc.
 I have prepared responses to request for records, including redacting information exempt from disclosure under FOIA.
 I have supervised FOIA functions.
 I have conducted FOIA training.
 I have attended FOIA training.
 I have completed an Administrative Law course.
 I do not have experience performing any of the FOIA related functions above.
 I have litigated matters involving FOIA and/or the Privacy Act.


10.
Indicate the positions on your resume which demonstrates the specialized experience (position title, employer, and dates held).


11.
From the following list, please identify each type of document which you have experience drafting and editing. Select all that apply.
 Responses to FOIA requests
 Routine Legal Correspondence
 Memoranda
 Regulations
 Presentations
 I do not have experience drafting and editing any of the document types above.
 Motions, pleadings, and other legal filings.


12.
Indicate the positions on your resume which demonstrates the experience above (position title, employer, and dates held).


13.
Please describe your ability to use Lexis/Nexis, Westlaw, PACER, Microsoft Office Suite, electronic FOIA processing systems, and other research software and computerized databases.
 I have no education, training, or experience in using these systems.
 I have had education and training in using these systems but have not yet used them on the job.
 I have used these systems on the job, with close supervision from a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have used these systems as a regular part of a job, independently and usually without review by a supervisor, manager, or senior employee.
 I have supervised others using these systems and/or I have trained others so they can use these systems or others normally consult with me as an expert on using these systems.


14.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, o in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙