Position Title
Recreation Assistant Lifeguard
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13004995 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for a Recreation Assistant Lifeguard position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
What is your comfort level in deep water (7' or greater depth) and the potential of making a rescue in deeper water?
 Fully comfortable
 Somewhat comfortable, but need additional practice
 Not comfortable


2.
Do you hold a current certification for the following 1) Lifeguard Certification, 2) CPR for Professional Rescuers, 3) First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator and 4) Blood Borne Pathogens
* Must upload to receive credit *
 Yes, I have all of the above documented
 No I do not have all of the above certifications or no documentation provided on resume


3.
To be qualified for the NF02 position, you must upload your professional certifications ( 1) Lifeguard Certification, 2) CPR for Professional Rescuers 3) First Aid to include Automated External Defibrillator and 4) Blood Borne Pathogens
 Yes, I have uploaded my professional certifications
 No, I have not uploaded my professional certifications but will provide proof of certification at time of interview
 No, I have not uploaded my professional certifications because I do not currently have the required professional certifications


4.
My working or volunteer experience as a lifeguard can be best described as:
 1+ years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or no documentation of experience


5.
How much experience cleaning and maintaining aquatic facilities have you documented on your resume?
 1+ years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year of documented experience
 No experience or no documentation of experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙