Position Title
Chief Technology Officer
Agency
Patent and Trademark Office
Announcement Number
EXRD-OCIO-26-12825637 (MP) Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 27, 2025 to Nov 10, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former Federal employee who held a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service?

To verify your eligibility as a current or former federal employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect: career or career-conditional (Block #24 Tenure 1 or 2); AND, status in the competitive service (Block #34 Position Occupied is 1).

A. Yes
B. No
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for Schedule A Disability appointments?

If eligible, provide proof of disability with appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference? For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. USAJOBS Veterans resources

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Have you held a political appointment within the previous five-year period?
 Yes
 No


2.
How did you hear about this USPTO job opportunity? (No Choice Limit)
 A. Email
 B. Facebook
 C. Instagram
 D. LinkedIn
 E. @USPTOJobs "X" (Twitter)
 F. Reddit
 G. Google Reviews
 H. Handshake University Platform
 I. Monster
 J. Indeed
 K. Glassdoor
 L. USAJOBS
 M. University Job Board
 N. Online Blog / Bulletin Board
 O. Friend
 P. USPTO Employee
 Q. Professional Society / Organization
 R. State Bar Association
 S. University Career Fair
 T. Conference
 U. University Career Placement Office
 V. Virtual Job Fair
 W. USPTO Information Session
 X. USPTO Jobs web pages
 Y. USPTO website
 Z. Other


3.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, by what agency/office or Department of Commerce bureau are you employed?
I am not a current Federal civilian employee
Other agency/office not in the Department of Commerce
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS)
Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (CENSUS)
Department of Commerce, Economic Development Administration (EDA)
Department of Commerce, Economic and Statistics Administration (ESA)
Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA)
Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA)
Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
Department of Commerce, National Technical Information Service (NTIS)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Secretary (OS)
Department of Commerce, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)
Department of Commerce, Office of the Inspector General
Other


4.
If you answered "Other" to the above question, please enter the agency and organization.


Professional/Technical Qualifications
There is NO requirement to prepare a narrative statement specifically addressing the Professional/Technical Qualifications (PTQs). When completing the USAJOBS short-answer sections, use the text boxes to identify relevant experience from your two-page resume for each PTQ. Each response is limited to 150 characters (including spaces). Be sure your examples match information included in your resume, as unrelated text will not be considered.


1.
Please identify where in your two-page resume the applicable experience for PTQ #1 can be found.

Expert knowledge of and demonstrated hands-on delivery experience in a wide range of technology and services - candidate must prove hands-on delivery past performance in at least two of the following areas and demonstrate knowledge and ability across all of the following: enterprise architecture; data architecture, database management, and data warehousing/analytics; cloud computing; software and application development; hardware; networking; cybersecurity; IT operations, and distributed digital voice and data networks.


2.
Please identify where in your two-page resume the applicable experience for PTQ #2 can be found.

Demonstrated leadership ability and expert knowledge to lead strategic and tactical enterprise-wide emerging technology initiatives to improve and enhance information technology security, development/delivery, operations, and lifecycle management in direct support of defined business objectives across a large, multifunctional technical organization which includes a blended workforce consisting of employees and contractors/vendors.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙