Position Title
Attorney - Advisor (Instructor)
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-DO/OCC-26-12882865 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 10, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a U.S. citizen?

All U.S. citizens are eligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


FLETC Data
1.
I am willing and able to possess and maintain a valid state-issued driver's license to conduct official government business.
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you been convicted of a crime in domestic violence? This position is subject to Lautenberg Amendment. Persons convicted of misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence are prohibited from occupying this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


4.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


5.
The Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers does not recognize academic degrees (including any coursework leading to a degree) from schools that are not accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education. Any applicant falsely claiming an academic degree from an accredited school will be subject to actions ranging from disqualification from federal employment to removal from federal service. Please review the following link to determine your school's accreditation status: Accreditation: Postsecondary Education Institutions | U.S. Department of Education.
 I certify that my academic degree (or degrees) is from a college or university accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 I have an academic degree (or degrees) from a college or university that is NOT accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the Department of Education.
 I do not have an academic degree.


6.
You must submit a copy of your college transcript (unofficial is acceptable) from an accredited institution listing the college/university, degree confirmation date(s) and applicable courses for the position you are applying to.

If selected, applicants must provide an official college transcript prior to appointment.

I have submitted a copy of my transcript with all required information.
 Yes
 No


7.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


Duty Location
1.
The duty location for this position is in Artesia New Mexico.
 Yes, I understand the duty location is in Artesia, New Mexico.
 I do NOT wish to be in Artesia, New Mexico, and understand I will no longer be considered for the position.


Assessment 1
1.
Please select which best describes your education. You MUST provide a copy of your transcripts in your application.
 The first professional law degree (LL.B. or JD).
 The second professional law degree (LL.M).
 None of the above.


2.
In order to be considered for this position you must be an ACTIVE member of at least one Bar of a state or territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and must be in good standing in every jurisdiction in which you are licensed. You MUST provide a copy of your Bar memberships with your application.
 I have attached a copy of my Bar membership in good standing in every jurisdiction in which I am licensed.
 I do not have an active Bar membership, or I am not in good standing.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Did you graduate from an accredited law school? Please submit copies of your transcripts.
 Yes
 No


4.
Qualifications requirements for the GS-0905-13 grade level, you must have at least 2 years of professional legal experience and one of those years must be equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the federal service performing such duties as having comprehensive knowledge of either federal or state criminal law through law enforcement or prosecutorial experience; - instructing, motivating, and imparting legal knowledge to others; - providing expert legal advice and opinions; - performing detailed and complex legal research across a broad spectrum of the law; - writing motions, appeals, or equivalent containing legal research; and - demonstrated knowledge in a significant field of law related to law enforcement. (Ensure your response can be verified with the information in your resume)

 I have all the listed specialized experience, and it is clearly annotated on my resume.
 I do not have the above listed specialized experience, BUT I possess two years of judicial clerkship.
 My background does not match any of the options provided.


5.
Qualifications requirements for the GS-0905-14 level: You must possess professional legal experience in excess of three years (at least one year must be equivalent to the GS-13 or higher) demonstrated by the following: substantial legal writing and communication skills;- conducting original legal research and legal analysis;- providing instruction in legal subjects related to the criminal justice system or for a law enforcement audience for a period of at least one year;- authoring and publishing articles on substantive legal matters;- experience presenting substantive material at nationally recognized conferences; and- demonstrated expertise in a significant field of law related to law enforcement.  (Must have all listed) (Ensure your response can be verified with the information in your resume)
 Yes, I have all the listed specialized experience, and it is clearly annotated on my resume.
 No, I do not have all or none of the specialized experience listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙