Position Title
Civil Engineer (Hydrologic)
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-DO-26-CTP-12929672-SN Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

To claim ICTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify ICTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center or review The Employee's Guide to Career Transition.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than The Department of the Interior?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this vacancy?
 A. American Society of Professional Estimators (ASPE)
 B. Association for Advancement of Cost Engineering International (AACEI)
 C. Engineering News-Record (ENR)
 D. Asianlife.com
 E. Diversenote.com
 F. NativeAmericanJobs.com
 G. WorkplaceDiversity.com
 H. Department of Veterans Affairs/Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment
 I. Division of Vocational Rehabilitation (DVR)
 J. National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
 K. Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (HACU)
 L. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
 M. Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCU)
 N. Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
 O. Referral from a Professor or Academic Advisor
 P. Referral from a College/University Career Placement Office
 Q. Referral from a non-listed Professional Organization
 R. Job/Career Fair
 S. Referral from a friend or family member
 T. Reclamation Employee
 U. Reclamation Internet Site
 V. Referral from a State or Local government
 W. Referral from another Federal Agency/employee
 X. USAJOBS.gov Search
 Y. Other Internet Site
 Z. Other


3.
Provide specific information about your response to the previous question (i.e. professor's name and place of employment; college or university name; job/career fair and location held; friend's name; etc.).


4.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


You WILL NOT be considered for this announcement if you fail to submit ALL the applicable required documentation in the announcement (i.e. transcripts,DD-214's, SF-15, VA letter, SF-50's, PE Registration, etc.) by the CLOSING DATE of this announcement. Please call the Human Resources Office phone number listed on this announcement for clarification or further information.


5.
This position is designated as a Non-Sensitive/Low Risk position. It requires a fully completed and favorably adjudicated SF85 Background Investigation (T1 or equivalent) that is current (within the last 5 years). This is a condition of employment.

Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates, and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


Please read the following eligibility questions carefully. If you do not meet any of the eligibilities, you will not be considered for this position.


To verify your claimed eligibility to apply for this position vacancy, you must submit all supporting documentations outlined in the Required Documents section of this job announcement.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


7.
I understand this is NOT a remote position.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Civil Engineer (Hydrologic), GS-0810-13 position with the Bureau of Reclamation. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Choose one answer which best describes your education and/or experience in accordance with requirements for engineering positions at this level.
 I have a professional engineering degree in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a professional engineering degree which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than 1st year physics/chemistry) in 5 of the following 7 areas of engineering science or physics: statics, dynamics, strength of materials, fluid mechanics, hydraulics, thermodynamics, electrical fields/circuits, nature and properties of materials, or comparable area of fundamental engineering science/physics such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by my current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any state, the District or Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by successfully passing the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to a bachelor's degree in engineering, demonstrated by completion of 60 semester hours of courses in physical, math, and engineering science and including engineering courses specified in Choice B.
 I completed a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, math, hydrology or geology, and I have 1 year of professional engineering experience under professional engineering supervision.
 I do not meet or exceed the education or experience requirement as described.


2.
GS-13. In addition to meeting basic requirements for this position, select one statement which best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Civil Engineer (Hydrologic) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Examples of specialized experience include, but are not limited to, hydrologic and climate data analysis, flood hydrology or meteorology studies, hydrologic and/or water quality modeling, river and reservoir systems modeling, or analysis of water supply and demands to inform water resources planning, design, or operations. Must have experience using teamwork to address complex hydrology and water resources issues and preparing written reports and oral presentations documenting data, methodologies, recommendations, and conclusions related to hydrologic and water resource engineering studies.
 I do not meet or exceed the requirements as described above.


For each question, select the response(s) that best describe your experience and training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


3.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of experience in the field of hydrology and water resources engineering.

 I have directed, conducted, and supervised the work of others in complex hydrology and water resources engineering studies (e.g., hydrologic modeling studies, water supply and demand analyses, water resources planning and operations studies, flood hazard analyses, or similar).
 I have performed complex hydrology and water resources engineering studies independently or as a member of team (e.g., hydrologic modeling studies, water supply and demand studies, water resources planning and operations studies, flood hazard analyses, or similar).
 I have performed routine hydrologic or water resources engineering analyses (e.g., compiling and evaluating hydrologic data, estimating runoff from small catchments using the rational method or unit hydrograph method, comparing model results under different conditions, or similar) that were subject to the guidance and review by higher level engineer or hydrologist.
 I have education in the field of hydrology and water resources engineering but have no practical experience in the field.
 None of the above.


4.
Select the statement below that best describes your oral presentation experience.

 I have no experience speaking in front of groups or giving formal presentations.
 I have given oral presentations prepared by others, or under direction and supervision of a higher-level hydrologist or engineer, to small or informal groups such as project teams, client contacts, or similar groups (less than 15 people).
 I have prepared and given oral presentations to a variety of groups such as multidisciplinary project teams, interagency groups, professional or academic meetings, or similar, including larger groups (more than 15 people).
 I have prepared and given oral presentations on complex and/or controversial subjects to a variety of groups, including technical teams, management, decision makers, stakeholders, and/or the public.


5.
Select the response(s) that describe your experience in preparing written documents.

 A. I have written technical reports based upon data collection, research, and analysis that summarize findings and make recommendations to inform or guide others in my organization.
 B. I have written documents that serve as formal guidelines or policy for my organization.
 C. I have written documents that summarize and address review comments on draft technical reports, manuscripts, guidance documents, or policy.
 D. I have written briefing papers that clearly and concisely summarize important points and contain recommendations for consideration by managers or decision makers in my organization.
 E. I have written business correspondence to other organizations or customers to communicate information that is complex or controversial in nature.
 F. I have written business correspondence to other organizations or customers to inform them of routine program activities or to transmit documents.
 G. I have developed written instructions or protocols for the management of agency assets.
 H. I have education or training in written communications, but limited experience.
 I. None of the above.


6.
I have authored or co-authored paper(s) published in refereed professional journals. Be sure to include your authored or co-authored publications in your resume.

 Yes
 No


7.
Select the response that best describes your experience with teamwork.
 I work independently and have no team experience.
 I have worked on team projects assigned as part of coursework or academic studies.
 I have worked on teams composed of my peers.
 I have worked on multi-disciplinary teams.
 I have worked on multi-disciplinary teams for large water projects.
 I have served as Project Manager/Team Leader on multidisciplinary teams.
 I have served as Project Manager/Team Leader on a multidisciplinary team for a large water project.


8.
Select the response that describes the complexity of your hydrology and water resources engineering work experience.

 I have no work experience in this field.
 I have worked on complex and/or controversial hydrology and water resources engineering projects/issues.
 I have represented the position of my agency on complex and/or controversial projects/issues at meetings with representatives from other agencies.
 I am often consulted as the office technical expert on hydrology and water resources engineering issues.
 I have been called to testify in court as the agency's technical expert on hydrology and water resources engineering issues.
 I have some experience with hydrology and water resources projects and issues.


9.
Select the statement which best describes your experience with project management principles including developing project schedules, budgets, budget implementation, and tracking to ensure overall accomplishment of large planning projects.

 I have independently developed, scheduled, coordinated, and managed large and/or complex projects or programs, including monitoring budgets and schedules.
 I have developed, scheduled, coordinated, and managed smaller and simpler projects independently or large and complex projects with direction and oversight.
 I have implemented and monitored project and/or program budgets and schedules for large and/or complex projects.
 I have implemented and monitored project and/or program budgets and schedules for smaller and simpler projects.
 I have some experience working with project and/or program budgets and schedules.
 None of the above.


10.
Select the hydrologic principles in which you consider yourself proficient. (Proficient means you have sufficient understanding of the theory, methods, and applications to apply a given principle to practical problems). Please provide examples in your resume.

 A. Hydrologic and climate data, including data sources and reliability.
 B. Hydrometeorology and precipitation.
 C. Surface runoff.
 D. Unit hydrograph theory and development.
 E. Open channel flow.
 F. Streamflow routing.
 G. Base flow determination.
 H. Soil moisture balance, including infiltration and recharge.
 I. Evapotranspiration.
 J. Evaporation.
 K. Snow and snowmelt.
 L. Groundwater flow, including unsaturated and saturated flow.
 M. Paleohydrology.
 N. Water quality, including water temperature.
 O. Soil drainage
 P. None of the above


11.
Select the types of flood hydrology analyses in which you consider yourself proficient. (Proficient means you have sufficient understanding and experience to apply a given analysis to practical problems). Please provide examples in your resume.

 A. Flood frequency analysis using at-site data.
 B. Flood frequency analysis of ungaged watersheds.
 C. Transposition of streamflow data.
 D. Rainfall-runoff modeling of large runoff events using models such as HEC-HMS.
 E. Envelope curves of maximum discharge.
 F. Volume frequency analysis.
 G. Hydrograph scaling.
 H. Probable maximum precipitation estimation.
 I. Probable maximum flood studies.
 J. Paleoflood analysis.
 K. Stream channel flood routing.
 L. Reservoir flood routing.
 M. Reservoir frequency analysis.
 N. Flood risk analysis, including uncertainty.
 O. Climate change impacts on hydrologic hazards.
 P. None of the above.


12.
Select the types of water resources planning and operations analyses in which you consider yourself proficient. (Proficient means you have sufficient understanding and experience to apply a given analysis to practical problems). Please provide examples in your resume.

 A. Analysis of surface water supplies, including seasonality and variability.
 B. Analysis of groundwater supplies, including recharge and groundwater storage.
 C. Analysis of agricultural water demands.
 D. Analysis of domestic, commercial, municipal, and industrial water demands.
 E. Development and evaluation of water management and operations strategies.
 F. Analysis of water temperature management strategies.
 G. Firm yield or safe yield analysis.
 H. Analysis of water supply reliability.
 I. Analysis of conjunctive management strategies, including stream depletion by wells.
 J. Use of forecast information in water operations and management.
 K. Drought analysis, including drought indices and paleodrought.
 L. Analysis of climate change impacts on water supplies.
 M. Analysis of climate change impacts on water demands.
 N. None of the above.


13.
Select the types of hydrologic modeling applications with which you are proficient. (Proficient means you have developed and/or used a given modeling application in conducting studies, preparing designs, and/or analyze water management or operations.) Please provide examples in your resume.

 A. River and reservoir systems models, including rule-based simulation (e.g., RiverWare, WRIMS, ResSim).
 B. Rainfall-runoff models (e.g., HEC-HMS).
 C. Land surface hydrology models (e.g., VIC, PRMS, SAC-SMA)
 D. Streamflow routing models.
 E. Reservoir routing models.
 F. Water quality models, including water temperature models (e.g., CE-QUAL-W2, HEC-5Q).
 G. Hydrodynamic models.
 H. Sediment transport models.
 I. Agricultural water demand models, including evapotranspiration, crop irrigation requirement, and agricultural water conservation.
 J. Municipal water demand models, including municipal water conservation.
 K. Groundwater models, including groundwater/surface water interaction (e.g., MODFLOW, IWFM).
 L. Weather or climate models, including regional climate models (e.g., WRF).
 M. Hydrologic model calibration, including parameter estimation and sensitivity.
 N. Hydropower system models.
 O. Use of satellite remote sensing data in hydrologic models and analysis.
 P. Other hydrologic models.
 Q. None of the above.


14.
Select the types of statistical methods in which you consider yourself proficient. (Proficient means you have sufficient understanding and experience to apply a given method to practical problems). Please provide examples in your resume.

 A. Univariate analysis, including descriptive statistics and univariate distributions.
 B. Multivariate analysis, including measures of dependence and conditional probabilities.
 C. Time series analysis, including trends and non-stationarity.
 D. Spectral analysis.
 E. Data reduction and clustering.
 F. Geo-spatial analysis.
 G. Data visualization.
 H. Parametric hypothesis tests.
 I. Non-parametric hypothesis tests.
 J. None of the above.


15.
Select the types of statistical analyses that you have applied as part of a hydrologic or water resources engineering analysis. Please provide examples in your resume.

 A. Data quality assurance and quality control, data reliability, and outliers.
 B. Record filling and extension, including transposition and/or imputation.
 C. Distribution fitting and confidence intervals, such as Maximum Likelihood Estimation, Expected Moments Algorithm, or Bayesian inference.
 D. Non-stationarity analysis, including trends and/or breakpoints.
 E. Statistical downscaling of global climate model outputs.
 F. Bias correction of simulated climate or hydrologic conditions.
 G. None of the above.


16.
Select the software tool(s) that you have used to develop original analysis of hydrologic data and/or model results and to summarize and/or visualize important messages for dissemination to others.

 A. Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 B. Stand-alone scripts/code.
 C. Code modules and/or packages.
 D. I have not used software tools to develop original analysis of hydrologic data or model results.


17.
Select the response that best describes your experience in programming and developing computer applications for hydrology and water resource engineering analyses.

 I have written code for one or more stand alone or local scripts or applications.
 I have written code for one or more units or components of a larger workflow, module, package, or application.
 I have written code for numerous units or components and have integrated them into complete modules, packages, or applications.
 I have fully designed, programmed, tested, documented, and implemented multi-component or multi-tasking application systems.
 I have fully designed, programmed, tested, documented, and implemented application systems that support transaction processing and information sharing across a user community that extends to several geographically dispersed offices served by a common network.
 None of the above.


18.
Select the programming languages and software packages with which you are proficient. (Proficient means you have developed and/or used modeling applications in conducting studies, preparing designs, or examining the operational efficiency of a project.) Please provide examples of how you have used or applied the selected languages or packages in your resume.

 A. C, C++, or C#
 B. Java
 C. Python
 D. R
 E. Fortran
 F. Matlab/Octave
 G. Visual Basic
 H. Structured query language (SQL)
 I. Other programming language(s)
 J. None of the above.


19.
Select the response(s) that describe your experience teaching others in difficult situations as part of complex or controversial hydrology or water resources projects.

 A. I have experience mentoring and teaching others (e.g., helping others learn through formal and informal methods, tutoring others in performance of tasks, and similar).
 B. I have experience providing constructive feedback to others.
 C. I have identified training needs and determined areas of improvement for others.
 D. I have coached others on how to perform tasks.
 E. I have experience mentoring and teaching others but not for a difficult situation as part of a complex or controversial hydrology or water resources project.
 F. I do not have experience teaching others.


20.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙