Position Title
Electronics Engineer
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAWpnSpt-26-13013982-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12


2.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


4.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
The purpose of this next question is to verify that you meet the basic requirements for this position. Please select the best answer that fits your situation. FAILURE TO ANSWER THIS QUESTION WILL MAKE YOU INELIGIBLE. *ALL APPLICANTS MUST PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUPPORT THIS BASIC REQUIREMENT.

 I have a bachelor's degree or higher in professional engineering. The curriculum for this degree must have been gained through a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum; or include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: a) statics, dynamics; b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; d) thermodynamics; e) electrical fields and circuits; f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and g) any other comparable areas of fundamental engineering science of physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by professional registration or licensure. (This includes current registration as an Engineering Intern (EI), Engineer in Training(EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by and State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in response A above.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished me with a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques, and their applications to one of the branches of engineering as demonstrated by successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least one year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statements.


2.
QUESTION: From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 GS-07: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Analyzing customer inquiries and requests to determine feasibility of electronic testing and/or laboratory test equipment necessary to adequately diagnose and/or characterize system/item performance and/or attributes. Demonstrating general awareness and understanding of typical electronic test equipment (e.g. voltmeter, ammeter, oscilloscope, etc.), and recognizing potential performance bounds, under oversight of senior level technicians, to ensure the correct (or adequate) tool diagnostic for a given electronic test is utilized. Completing assignments by following specific instructions and procedures, in strict compliance with instructions, within allowable time frames, priorities, anticipated problems, etc. Working assignments that start less difficult and gradual become more complex and involved in nature as knowledge is gained from previous experience and with more frequent repetition of applicable and pertinent regulations, procedures, and guidelines, while proactively seeking guidance and assistance for situations not covered by instructions. Referring problem situations and deviations to those in a position of authority resolution and/or guidance.
 GS-07: I possess one year of graduate-level education or superior academic achievement OR successful completion of a 5 year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelors degree in engineering.
 GS-07: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and B above.
 GS-09: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Assisting in writing test programs for the Automated Test Equipment (ATE) and devises computer controlled test setups. Assisting in designing and developing novel electrical test circuits and fixtures. Assisting in testing electronic devices, sub- assemblies and assemblies. Employing computer controlled, state-of-the-art, electronic test systems
 GS-09: I possess two years of graduate-level education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree or a combination of superior academic achievement and 1 year of appropriate professional experience OR successful completion of a 5-year program of study of at least 160 semester hours leading to a bachelors degree in engineering and 1 year of appropriate professional experience.
 GS-09: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in D and E above.
 GS-11: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Preparing test programs for the Automated Test Equipment (ATE) and devises computer controlled test setups. Designing and developing novel electrical test circuits and fixtures. Preparing setup of testing electronic devices, sub- assemblies and assemblies. Employing computer controlled, state-of-the-art, electronic test systems.
 GS-11: I possess three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree
 GS-11: I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in G and H above.
 GS-12: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Writing test programs for the Automated Test Equipment (ATE) and devised computer controlled test setups. Designing and developing electrical test circuits and fixtures. Testing electronic devices, sub- assemblies and assemblies. Employing computer controlled, state-of-the-art, electronic test systems.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙