Position Title
Physician (Associate Director for Education & Evaluation)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-12755282-25-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2025 to Aug 07, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Your resume must be submitted in English and include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


1.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Physician (Associate Director for Education & Evaluation) VM-0602 - The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS OR PROVIDE THE NECESSARY INFORMATION MAY RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.

To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements will not be referred and are not being considered for this position.

Please choose the best (most appropriate) answer to determine your eligibility for this position.


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d)?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education: Do you possess a degree of doctor medicine or an equivalent degree resulting from a course of education in allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine?

The degree must have been obtained from one of the schools approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the year in which the course of study was completed. Approved schools are:
   (a) Schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted.
   (b) Schools of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) for the year in which the degree was granted.
   (c) For foreign medical graduates not covered in (a) or (b) above, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) certificate is required.
medical graduates not covered in (a) or (b) above, Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) certificate is required.
 Yes. I graduated from a school of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) for the year in which the degree was granted.
 Yes. I graduated from a school of osteopathic medicine approved by the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) of the American Osteopathic Association for the year in which the degree was granted.
 Yes. I graduated from a foreign medical graduate school not covered in above (a) or (b). I have required Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) certificate. (Must provide a copy for verification)
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


2a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding the academic institution(s) from which you received your degree of doctor medicine (or equivalent) education:
Name of Academic Institution
City and State
Type of Degree (e.g., Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.), etc.)
Month and Year conferred


3.
Residency: Have you completed residency training, or fellowship training if applicable, or its equivalent, approved by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in an accredited core specialty training program leading to eligibility for board certification?


Approved residencies, and fellowships if applicable, are:
   (a) Those approved by the accrediting bodies for graduate medical education, the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME); or
   (b) Those approved by American Osteopathic Association (AOA), in the list published for the year the residency, or fellowship if applicable, was completed; or
   (c) Other residencies (non-US residency training programs followed by a minimum of five years of verified practice in the United States), which the local Medical Staff Executive Committee deems to have provided the applicant with appropriate professional training and believes has exposed the physician to an appropriate range of patient care experiences.
 Yes, I completed a residency approved by ACGME.
 Yes, I completed a residency approved by AOA.
 Yes, I completed other approved non-US residency training program followed by a minimum of five years of verified practice in the United States as described above on approved residencies/fellowships section. (must provide a copy with application).
 No. None of the above Response Options apply to me.


3a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding your Residency/Fellowship:
Name of institution where Residency/Fellowship was completed 
Specialty/Area of Emphasis
Physical location of the institution (complete address)
Date residency was completed (i.e., Month, Year) (or will soon be completed)
If you institution is affiliated with a university, please provide name and location of affiliated university.

If you institution is affiliated with a university, please provide names and locations of institution and university.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards.


4.
License: Do you currently hold, or will you hold, a full and unrestricted license to practice Medicine in a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


4a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding your Medicine licensure:
Name on License
Type of License
Issuing state or territory
Complete license number
Initial issuance date
Expiration date


5.
Please indicate your citizenship status.
 U.S. Citizen
 Permanent Resident Alien
 H-1B Temporary Worker Visa
 O-1 Temporary Worker Visa
 TN Temporary Worker Visa
 J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa
 None of the above.


Preferred Experience for the position of Physician (Associate Director for Education & Evaluation) - The following section may be used by this position's Hiring Manager to help determine the level of your experience and how it relates (or does not relate) to the desired, preferred experience Hiring Manager is seeking.

FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL HAVE NO BEARING ON YOUR ELIGIBLITY RATING; HOWEVER, MAY IMPACT HIRING MANAGER'S DETERMINATION ON WETHER YOU ARE AMONG THE BEST QUALIFIED.

Provide most appropriate response and information for the following questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Preferred Experience Question 1 of 3:
In your training history, does your resume/curriculum vitae clearly demonstrate you being certified in Geriatrics and Palliative Care with specific experience with patients with multi-complexity and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis?
 Yes
 No


6a.
If yes, provide the following information regarding your active certifications and/or registrations; otherwise leave blank or enter, "N/A."
Credential type
Issuing organization
Credential number (if applicable)
Initial issuance date
Expiration date (if applicable)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Preferred Experience Question 2 of 3:
In your training history, does your resume/curriculum vitae clearly demonstrate you being Fellowship trained offering educational experience to lead, develop and evaluate aging-related educational programs/activities covering trainees and fellows?
 Yes
 No


7a.
If yes, where? (e.g., list type of fellowship, facility or institution, location, inclusive dates, etc.); otherwise leave blank or enter, "N/A."


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
Preferred Experience Question 3 of 3:
In your work history, does your resume/curriculum vitae clearly demonstrate you having Geriatrics specialized experience, clinically privileged to provide care at host VA facility?
 Yes
 No


8a.
If yes, where? (e.g., list position held or title of position, facility or institution, location, inclusive dates, etc.); otherwise leave blank or enter, "N/A."


***Application Package Notification & Important Information***

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Heart of Texas VA Health Care System. It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration.

Please Note: Your resume will not be referred for consideration if information is incomplete and not able to be verified per the VA Qualification Standards. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.

Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration:
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process). Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation. Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.

Please Note: Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package. However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.

Some helpful tips:
Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week
Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.
Current VA Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50)
Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable).

Additional Resources:
Obtaining your Transcripts: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ 
How to Build a Resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ 
What to Include in my Federal resume: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙