Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-26-SE-12936995-NB Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current permanent employees of the Office of Business Integration (OBI), and those eligible for priority consideration under the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) within the local, Washington, DC commuting area.


1.
Are you a current permanent employee of the Office of Business integration (OBI) within the local, Washington, DC commuting area?
 Yes, I am a current Office of Business Integration (OBI) employee within the local, Washington, DC commuting area.
 No, but I am CTAP eligible within the local, Washington, DC commuting area. and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 or held the GS-13 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-12 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


3.
At the GS-14 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-13 or held the GS-14 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have held a GS-14 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-13 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: This section includes questions about your qualifications for this position.


4.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-13  Program Analyst position.

GS 13 - Specialized experience is defined as: Skilled in conducting data driven analysis methods for the assessment and improvement of program effectiveness to include experience in reviewing policies and procedures to determine the impact of field operations to determine field strengths, weaknesses and best practices and making recommendations.

 I have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level and specialized experience as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


5.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience for the GS-14  Program Analyst position.

GS 14 - Specialized experience is defined as: Expertise in applying a wide range of qualitative and quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of program effectiveness or the improvement of complex management processes and systems. AND Reviewing policies and procedures to determine the impact of programs/systems on field operations or conducting evaluative studies of field offices to determine field strengths, weaknesses and best practices and making recommendations.
 I have at least one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level and specialized experience as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/ understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙