Position Title
General Maintenance Supervisor
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12961796-M Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
For the GS-13 - you must have one year of experience at the GS-12 level in the federal service or equivalent that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience includes the following:
Managing or supervising a multi-disciplinary facilities or utilities workforce, including planning work, assigning tasks, setting priorities, evaluating performance, and addressing conduct or performance issues.; AND
Developing, planning, and implementing short- and long-term strategies related to facility operations, maintenance programs, energy conservation, environmental compliance, and equipment replacement. AND
Experience troubleshooting, repairing, and maintaining major facility and utility systems such as HVAC, electrical distribution, wastewater treatment, plumbing, natural gas systems, or other complex physical plant infrastructure.
For the GS-13, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not have at least 1 year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. Indicate place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties.


3.
From the following list, select all of the leadership duties you have performed on a recurring basis.
 A. Planned work to be accomplished by subordinates, set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Responsible for first line supervision to employees.
 D. Developed performance standards and evaluated employee's work.
 E. Instructed employees on both program work and administrative matters.
 F. Interviewed candidates for positions.
 G. Recommended individuals for appointment, promotion, or reassignment.
 H. Worked with employees to identify their developmental training needs based on organizational goals and budget realities.
 I. Resolved office conflicts through mediation and/or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 J. Resolved office conflicts by providing written guidance.
 K. Addressed employees conduct issues by seeking appropriate human resources actions such as verbal admonishments or suspensions.
 L. Coached employees on performance issues.
 M. Followed necessary steps when an employee's performance did not improve.
 N. Developed performance improvement plans.
 O. Oversaw the performance of other staff on a team.
 P. None of the above.


4.
Please select the experiences below that you have performed with facilities equipment, systems related projects or project teams.
 A. Establish priorities among multiple projects.
 B. Establish timelines for multiple projects.
 C. Close out projects.
 D. Project budget.
 E. Start up and manage projects through completion.
 F. Establish and monitor project progress.
 G. Meet deadlines.
 H. Use project management software.
 I. Make resource decisions for competing projects.
 J. Assign tasks and monitor performance.
 K. Anticipate and resolve problems.
 L. None of the above


5.
Please select the tasks that you have experience performing as recurring duties. Select all that apply.
 A. I have established priorities for accomplishment of work.
 B. I have developed plans for future contingencies.
 C. I have evaluated program effectiveness through multiple methods to include inspections and management improvement studies.
 D. I have identified and executed renovation and modernization projects.
 E. I have prepared and reviewed documents necessary to obtain contracts for operation, maintenance, and repair of facilities.
 F. I have independently planned and conducted appropriate course of action in recognizing and resolving complex features encountered in facilities renovation and new designs.
 G. None of the above.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your experience gathering and evaluating information and data.
 I have applied analytical and evaluating methods, theories, and techniques to provide recommendations on technical issues (e.g., researching and analyzing official documents, compiling, and charting statistical data, gathering, summarizing and analyzing information for incorporation into final reports, carrying out specified portions or segments of specific projects).
 I have tracked and monitored completion of office assignments and prepared reports that evaluate results and document trends.
 I have conducted analysis, reviews, and studies of operational and administrative programs and processes in order to provide recommended solutions and improvements for the efficiency of the office.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
Please indicate all of the following with which you have demonstrated experience:
 A. I have applied a comprehensive range of principles, concepts, and practices concerning equipment, facility, or service operations with complicated technical requirements that have no clear precedent or plan.
 B. I have planned facility requirements, including evaluating present use patterns of buildings, equipment, other facilities, and review of facility upgrade projects.
 C. I have projected future requirements in terms of space utilization, changing tenants, and agency requirements.
 D. I have applied mechanical, electrical, environmental, civil, and architectural principles and practices of engineering for use in planning, designing, and monitoring activities.
 E. None of the above


8.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


9.
Please select the following you have experience managing the operations of, in support of, an Industrial Manufacturing Facility. Select all that apply.
 A. Emergency power generators.
 B. Uninterrupted power supplies (UPS)
 C. Main electrical power feeds
 D. Associated power systems switch gear
 E. Waste Water Treatment
 F. HVAC Systems
 G. None of the above


10.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


11.
Please select the facilities operating services that you are proficient in (proficient means you understand and utilize a major part of the system's functionality/capabilities).
 A. Electricity
 B. Heating
 C. Air Conditioning
 D. Environmental Compliance
 E. Energy Conservation
 F. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
Do you have experience serving as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR)?
 Yes
 No


13.
Please select all relating to your demonstrated working experience.
 A. Market research of manufacturing and production equipment components/ systems.
 B. Certified Contracting Officers Representative (COR).
 C. Writing sole source justifications.
 D. Writing statements of work (SOW).
 E. Submit purchase request (PR's).
 F. Providing care for documentation, adhering to or leading a configuration management effort.
 G. Execution of Configuration Control .
 H. Generate Independent Government Cost Estimates (IGCE) and cost estimations for planning purposes.
 I. Create and maintain master bills of material for large scale equipment.
 J. LEAN / Six Sigma concepts.
 K. Automated/ robotic production/ packaging systems.
 L. SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) systems.
 M. Creating spare parts lists for supply.
 N. None of the above


14.
Please select the statement(s) that describe(s) your written communication skills. Select all that apply.
 A. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and routed correspondence for signature by higher level official.
 B. I have provided authoritative technical advice in subject matter areas to managers, employees, and members of the general public.
 C. I have kept abreast of key organizational activities, policies, and priorities likely to affect operations.
 D. I have prepared issue papers, briefings to programming personnel, subject-matter groups and/or management officials at all levels within an organization.
 E. None of the above.


15.
Choose the statements that best describe your experience communicating orally.
 A. I have presented justifications and recommendations to high-ranking management officials on controversial decisions, conclusions, or findings.
 B. I have successfully persuaded program managers and other decision-making officials, with differing goals and interests, to follow my suggestions and recommended courses of action.
 C. I have participated in meetings to discuss program issues, present findings, and resolve problems.
 D. I have provided advice to managers on program operations, policies, and requirements.
 E. I have contacted others to obtain information.
 F. I have explained technical and non-technical information.
 G. I have responded to inquiries or requests for information.
 H. I have presented data or provided clarification on formal reports.
 I. None of the above.


16.
Choose the statement(s) that describe(s) your experience developing effective internal and external working relationships.
 A. I have experience building constructive relationships with customers, peers, supervisors, managers, and subordinates.
 B. I have taken calculated risks to improve performance, develop innovations, or achieve challenging goals.
 C. I have acted decisively and appropriately during a crisis.
 D. I have taken action to evaluate and improve practices and avoid future problems.
 E. None of the above.


17.
Please identify the following forms of written documents you have initiated as a regular, recurring part of your job. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Reports - documenting the effectiveness of operations and maintenance programs.
 B. Maintenance and Repair plans.
 C. Contracts for operations, maintenance, and repair of facilities.
 D. Requirements, drawings, specifications, statements of work and cost estimates for major renovations, improvements, and modifications to facilities.
 E. Program scope documents.
 F. None of the above.


18.
From the following list, select the Project Management deliverables, plans, or tools that you have experience creating and/or maintaining and using.
 A. Project Charter
 B. Scope, Risk, Communication, or Change Management Plan
 C. Project Schedule
 D. Project Status Reports
 E. Lessons Learned Document
 F. Work Breakdown Structure
 G. None of the above.


19.
Choose the one statement that best describes your experience in project management.
 I have managed multiple contracts as the project manager for facilities projects.
 I have provided significant input for project management activities such as developing milestones and work breakdown tasks.
 I have organized, coordinated, and prioritized a variety of individual and team-based activities for projects, and worked independently or as part of a team as the situation may dictate.
 I have contributed as a team member on facilities projects.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙