Position Title
Administrative Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13052981 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Merit Plan Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an Administrative Assistant. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.

Your answers must be supported in your resume to be considered.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have at least two years of experience in an administrative position?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please describe your length of experience preparing official correspondence, reports, and other documents that provide information to senior level officials.
 I have 3 or more years of experience in this task in a DoD organization.
 I have 3 or more years of experience in this task in a civilian organization.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in this task in a DoD organization.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in this task in a civilian organization.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in this task.
 I have no practical experience in this task.


3.
What is your work experience in administrative functions, to include: excellent typing skills, ability to use a personal computer with specific ability with word processing, spreadsheet, data base and presentation software?
 More than 4 years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheets and database software.
 Two to 3 years' experience in administrative functions with specific skills in word processing, spreadsheets and data base software.
 Less than 2 years or no experience in administrative functions.
 No practical experience in this competency.


4.
What is your skill level with accounting procedures, billing processes, purchasing, and requisitioning procedures?
 I have at least 3 years of experience in this competency.
 I have at least 2 years of experience in this competency.
 I have at least 1 year of experience in this competency.
 I have no practical experience in this competency.


5.
This position maintains the supervisor's calendar and verifies schedule of others to minimize conflicts when scheduling meetings or conferences.  Updates group calendars of scheduled events.  What is your level of experience with this skill?
 I have at least 3 years of experience managing calendars and appointments for multiple individuals.
 I have 1-3 years of experience managing calendars and appointments for multiple individuals.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in this competency.
 I have no practical experience in this task.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙