Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSY-13029146-26-NMK Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


If applying as an internal or status candidate with current or former Federal Service, you must provide a copy of your most recent non-award SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action", showing the highest grade or promotion potential held. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one year time-in-grade.


3.
This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-07 and GS-09. For the GS-07 grade level you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade level, GS-05; for the GS-09 grade level you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade level, GS-07. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet.
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-05 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-07 grade level.
 Yes. I have completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-09 grade level.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-05 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-07 grade level.
 No. I have not completed 52 weeks in a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent to qualify for the GS-09 grade level.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-07 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because I currently occupy (or have previously occupied) a position at or above the GS-09 grade level or equivalent.
 Not applicable. TIG does not apply to me because although I am a current federal employee, I have not been under the GS pay scale within the past 52 week. (ie: WG or other pay plan)


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following question based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Minimum Qualifications for GS-07 - Select the one statement below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the minimum requirements for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-5 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization as described in this vacancy announcement. Examples of specialized experience would typically include: customer service, communicating with customers in a courteous, tactful, and respectful manner providing consistent information according to established policies and procedures; processing incoming and outgoing materials such as correspondence, reports, memoranda, and other forms of written communication; utilizing various software systems to manage data and reports; and experience analyzing and interpreting data to solve problems (This experience must be well documented in your resume or application package).
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate level education in a subject area related to the position to be filled, such as business, social science, or a closely related field. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree and am claiming Superior Academic Achievement (SAA). In order to be creditable under this provision, SAA must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled. SAA is based on: (1) Class Standing - Must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade Point Average (GPA) - Must have a grade point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - May be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). (TRANSCRIPTS/VERIFICATION OF CLASS STANDING REQUIRED)
 I have the specialized experience in as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education as described in B or C. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Minimum Qualifications for GS-09 - Select the one statement below that best describes your experience and/or education to meet the minimum requirements for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-7 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization as described in this vacancy announcement. Examples of specialized experience would typically include: performing cost and personnel analysis; utilizing various software systems to manage data and reports; evaluating the efficiency of operations; recommending process improvements for productivity; coordinating with multiple contacts both inside and outside the organization; and preparing various correspondence, such as meeting minutes, memoranda, or other forms of written communication. (This experience must be well documented in your resume or application package).
 I have successfully completed a master's (or equivalent) degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a subject area related to the position to be filled, such as business, social science, or a closely related field. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have the specialized experience in as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year by 18. (Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applications for positions at the GS-09 grade level. Ex: 24 semester hours - 18, divided by 18.) Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education as described in B. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙