Position Title
International Relations Specialist (Middle East)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
OS-CBVZ-26-13041164-IMP-DLP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you eligible for conversion from a Pathways Internship?
This authority allows for current Pathways Interns that have completed all Pathways program requirements to be non-competitively converted to a permanent or Term position in the competitive service.

To be eligible for non-competitive conversion from a Pathways Intern position, you must:

Be a U.S. Citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island);
Be within the 180-day conversion time-frame from the date your degree, career, or technical education program requirements are conferred;
Completed at least 480 hours of work experience acquired through the Internship Program while enrolled full-time or part-time;
Completed your degree, career, or technical education program requirements;
Meet the qualification standards for the position to which you will be converted;
Meet agency-specific requirements as specified in the Participant's Agreement; and,
Maintain acceptable performance under the agency's approved performance management system.
Receive favorable recommendation for conversion from your supervisor.
Indefinite Interns must have a completed IDP.

To claim eligibility for non-competitive conversion under a Pathways Intern appointment, you must submit the following documentation with your application:

Copies of the appropriate documentation including:

Transcripts with degree date, unofficial will be accepted, however official transcripts will be required prior to a final job offer;
Current pathways agreement;
a favorable recommendation for conversion from the work experience supervisor;
Current SF-50 showing Pathways status.
 Yes
 No


2.
30 Percent or More Disabled Veterans: 
To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents:
copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service;
copy of your disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; 
copy of the completed Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Promotional): 
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
Current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service that occupying (or previously held) a position at a lower grade level than the position being announced or lower than the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Wage System/Trade Positions) Current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a pay rate that is below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current Department of the Interior AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service who is applying for a promotional opportunity as outlined above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Lateral or Downgrade):
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that currently holds or previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same (or higher grade level) with the same (or higher promotion potential) than the position being announced.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of the Interior employee at the same grade level (or higher) AND your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. If you previously held a higher grade level on a permanent basis, but not currently, please provide that SF-50.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Individuals with disabilities
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?
 
For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must provide "proof of a disability" documentation. "Proof of a disability" is a letter stating that you have an intellectual disability, severe physical disability or psychiatric disability. You can get this letter from your doctor, a licensed medical professional, a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist, or any Federal, state, or local agency that issues or provides disability benefits. Example letter format can be found here: sampleschedaletters.pdf. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Do you wish to be considered for appointment under Schedule A Hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
It is your responsibility to ensure that your resume and correct documents are uploaded and received. Please, verify during the application process on the "application review page" that you have uploaded the appropriate documentation as stated in the required documents section of the vacancy announcement. No documentation will be accepted after the closing date of the announcement. I understand that it is my responsibility that I must submit a resume and all required supporting documentation prior to the closing date of the announcement.
 Yes
 No


2.
What attracted you to this position?
 Service as a Civil Servant
 Government Benefits
 Salary
 Work Schedule Flexibility
 Downturn in Non-Federal Job Market
 Job Stability
 Office Location
 Other


3.
If you have ever held a Federal position please indicate your pay plan, highest grade held, and dates held below (e.g. GS-13; 08/15/11 - 08/15/12). If applying based on noncompetitive eligibility and if you do not have prior Federal service, please type "N/A" in the text box below.


4.
Applicants who apply under this job opportunity announcement have the option to have their application, associated documents and applicable personal information shared with other Bureaus/Offices within the Department of the Interior (DOI) that have vacancies within the same occupational series, grade, promotion potential and in the same geographic location(s), including within the same metro/commuting area. Applying to this announcement does not replace the need to apply to other job opportunity announcements for which you wish to receive consideration. If you select "yes", your information could potentially be shared with other bureaus if there is a need to fill another position. If you select "no", your information will NOT be shared with other bureaus. Do you agree to have your information shared with other bureaus?
 Yes, I would like my information shared with other bureaus.
 No, I would not like my information shared with other bureaus.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.



1.
Individual Occupational Requirements (0131): Choose from the list below that applies to you as related to the Individual Occupational requirements for the GS-0131 series. The list includes a list of education, experiece, professional registrations and certifications, select those that apply to you (select all that apply).
 I have a Major or equivalent, or a combination of courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in international law and international relations, political science, economics, history, sociology, geography, social or cultural anthropology, law, statistics, or in the humanities; or 12 semester hours in one of the above disciplines and 12 semester hours in statistics/quantitative methods.
 I have a combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours, in one or more of the social sciences, or in the humanities, as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I have four years of appropriate experience in one or more of the fields listed above in work associated with international organizations, problems, or other aspects of foreign affairs.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
GS-13: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have specialized experience. Select the response below that best describes your experience.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to at least the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service as described in the qualifications section of the vacancy announcement that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.
 I do not meet the requirements as described.


3.
Selective Placement Factor - I certify that I can fluently speak, read, and write in the French or Arabic or Turkic language.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙