Position Title
Lead Tax Examining Technician (Bilingual-Spanish)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13061471P-SBN-0592-08 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 22, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


12.
This is a bilingual position. Applicants are required to certify proficiency in speaking in English and the language specified in this vacancy announcement.
You must be able to speak in English and the language specified in this vacancy announcement which includes the ability to:
Ask and answer questions to gather basic information from customers, AND
Share information and converse with native speakers on common topics, such as current events, AND
Explain technical information to a non-technical audience.

If selected, you must demonstrate proficiency.
 I certify that I am proficient in speaking in English and the language specified in this vacancy announcement . I understand that if I fail to demonstrate proficiency, I may be terminated from employment.
 I am not proficient in speaking English and the language specified in this vacancy announcement as stated above.


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:
Specialized Experience GS-08:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
-    Providing guidance, workload coordination, and quality oversight to team members in accordance with organizational goals and objectives.
-    Resolving sensitive taxpayer account problems involving multiple tax periods, prior account activity, and conflicting information within the accounts.
-    Overseeing the impact of corrective actions on account accuracy and related transactions made by team members and/or colleagues' work.
-    Ensuring account resolution through the computation of taxes, penalties, and interest, including restricted interest.
-    Applying tax laws and regulations to make determinations in sensitive taxpayer cases that includes the statute of limitations provisions.
-    Supporting taxpayer voluntary compliance by ensuring account discrepancies or other issues are addressed timely, contributing to the administration of applicable tax laws across Campus Examination Automated Underreporter (CEA).

Your experience must include:
-    Applying transaction codes within processing systems (e.g., Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS), Audit Information Management System (AIMS), Enterprise Case Management (ECM)) to determine account discrepancies or unpostable conditions.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
Specialized Experience GS-08:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
- Providing guidance, workload coordination, and quality oversight to team members in accordance with organizational goals and objectives.
- Resolving sensitive taxpayer account problems involving multiple tax periods, prior account activity, and conflicting information within the accounts.
- Overseeing the impact of corrective actions on account accuracy and related transactions made by team members and/or colleagues' work.
- Ensuring account resolution through the computation of taxes, penalties, and interest, including restricted interest.
- Applying tax laws and regulations to make determinations in sensitive taxpayer cases that includes the statute of limitations provisions.
- Supporting taxpayer voluntary compliance by ensuring account discrepancies or other issues are addressed timely, contributing to the administration of applicable tax laws across Campus Examination Automated Underreporter (CEA).

Which of the following describes your specialized experience?
 I have one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


2.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service applying transaction codes within processing systems (e.g., Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS), Audit Information Management System (AIMS), Enterprise Case Management (ECM)) to determine account discrepancies or unpostable conditions?

 Yes
 No


For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


3.
Which of the following areas of SBSE do you have experience in?

 Automated Underreporter (AUR)
 Correspondence Examination
 Centralized Case Processing
 Business Underreporter (BUR)
 Specialty Tax
 Document Matching & Field Support
 Innocent Spouse
 None of the above


4.
Which of the following methods do you use to manage your workload?

 A. Use overage/inventory lists and statute reports to prioritize according to guidelines.
 B. Multi-tasking to ensure competing deadlines are met.
 C. Attend to issues resulting from internal or external customer contact from email or phone call within prescribed deadlines.
 D. Assigning and monitoring workgroup inventory per office guidelines.
 E. None of the above


5.
Which of the following describes your experience ensuring accuracy of work and efficiency within your workgroup?

 A. Provide technical guidance for case resolution.
 B. Perform quality reviews and make recommendations for corrective action(s).
 C. Identify training needs.
 D. Delegate work to meet the workgroup's deadlines.
 E. None of the above


6.
What actions do you take to prevent unpostables?

 A. Analyze and review appropriate IDRS command codes (e.g., TXMOD, ENMOD, SUMRY).
 B. Input correct adjustment, utilizing appropriate transaction code(s)/reference codes/hold codes/priority codes.
 C. Identify proper money amounts to be transferred, assessed, abated and/or compute settlement amounts.
 D. None of the above


7.
Which of the following processing experiences do you utilize in analyzing/adjusting the taxpayer's account?

 A. Performing credit transfers/excess collection/reversals /quick assessments/ issuing or inputting manual refunds/preparing documents for required account actions.
 B. Performing analysis of tax forms and/or related worksheets to determine the accuracy of a computation/ identifying previous abatements/assessments.
 C. Updating taxpayer history in the applicable system (e.g. AMS (Accounts Management System), ECM (Enterprise Case Management), etc.).
 D. None of the above


8.
Which of the following actions do you take to compute interest?

 A. Utilize IDRS account history to determine suspension dates that may apply.
 B. Utilize COMPA to compute simple interest.
 C. Utilize applicable tool (e.g. DMI, IAT, etc.) to compute restricted interest.
 D. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following tasks describe your experience verbally communicating to resolve tax problems?

 A. Communicate with taxpayer or taxpayer’s representative (POA or CPA) to resolve an account issue and/or collect information.
 B. Communicate with IRS Counsel attorneys, Revenue Agents, and/or Revenue Officers to resolve an account issue and/or collect information.
 C. Present new, complex, or unique work issues to upper management or analysts for resolution.
 D. Give a technical presentation at Continuing Professional Education (CPE)/Critical Filing Season Readiness Training (CFSRT)or during a workshop.
 E. None of the above


10.
Have you had experience interacting with an irate or uncooperative customer on behalf of a teammate?

 Yes
 No


11.
Indicate your experience creating written documents.

 A. Writing training material which was approved.
 B. Assisting in creating job aids/desk guides which were approved for distribution.
 C. Taking/preparing minutes during a meeting (e.g., team meetings)that were approved for distribution.
 D. Preparing reports based on research/outcomes and recommending solutions to management.
 E. Preparing reports based on research/outcomes and recommending solutions to upper management (one or more level above your manager).
 F. Preparing case reports and/or memorandums based on research and actions taken used for a higher-level review.
 G. None of the above


12.
What tools or techniques do you use/research to stay abreast of changes in procedures or tax laws?

 A. Sign up for email notifications of IRM changes.
 B. Check Servicewide Electronic Research Program (SERP), Integrated Automation Technologies (IAT) tools or IDRS MESSG for updates.
 C. Independently take online courses (for example, through ITM, Percipio).
 D. None of the above


13.
What measures do you take to resolve new types of cases?

 A. Check Service-wide Electronic Research Program (SERP), IRMs, forms and publications.
 B. Seek guidance from my Technical Advisor.
 C. Utilize technical digests or newsletters.
 D. Research IRS Business Operating Division (BOD) intranet websites.
 E. None of the above


14.
Which of the following describes your experience which contributes to a supportive workplace environment.

 A. Made presentations to management and/or workgroup to share technical procedures.
 B. Served as a technical expert for complex cases.
 C. Volunteered for additional work-related duties (e.g., cross functional training, Subject Matter Expert, CPE content).
 D. Provided tax related technical assistance to help other workgroups.
 E. None of the above


15.
Which describes your experience overseeing others?

 A. Providing leadership and direction to team members.
 B. Completing detailed managerial briefings that affect multiple workflows.
 C. Monitoring program/project assignments to prescribe deadlines and/or milestones.
 D. None of the above.


16.
Which of the following tool(s) have you assisted a teammate with?

 A. Report Generation Software (RGS)
 B. Appeals Centralized Database System (ACDS)
 C. Accounts Management Services (AMS)
 D. Integrated Automation Technologies (IAT)
 E. Correspondence Imagining System (CIS)
 F. Automated Underreporter (AUR)
 G. Automated Substitute For Return (ASFR)
 H. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS)
 I. Enterprise Case Management (ECM)
 J. Credit transfers
 K. Abatements
 L. Assessments
 M. Manual Refunds
 N. Penalty adjustments
 O. None of the above


17.
Which of the following tasks describe your participation in resolving workgroup issues?

 A. Serve as a resource person/subject matter expert (SME) when my manager handles a workgroup resolution/issue.
 B. Serve as an On-the-job instructor or coach for training tax examiners on cases.
 C. Serve as team member developing and improving work procedures and processes.
 D. None of the above


18.
Do you have experience evaluating differing or conflicting information provided by junior employees and determining the accuracy of account records and timely case resolution?

 Yes
 No


19.
Which of the following describe your experience instructing others?

 A. Served as an On-the-job instructor.
 B. Delivered formal in-person training.
 C. Delivered formal virtual training.
 D. Served as a Lead Instructor.
 E. None of the above


20.
Have you completed Classroom Instructor Training and/or Virtual Classroom Instructor Training and received your certification?

 Yes
 No


21.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙