Position Title
CYP School Liaison Officer (Small)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12983822 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program School Liaison Officer. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.
 


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 Successful completion of a 4 year college or university degree with a major course of study or substantial course work which directly relates to a CYP field: Early Childhood, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a closely related field AND a minimum of 3 years of experience working with school personnel, students and parents (i.e., School Liaison Officer, CYP Manager, education or academic leader/counselor).
 A combination of education and experience - courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 hours) appropriate to the position (see above), plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in ECE, Elementary or Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a related field of study.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Elementary or Secondary Education, Special Education, Child Development, Youth Development, Psychology, Youth Program Administration, or a related field of study.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in conducting program evaluations (e.g., research interviews, focus groups, working groups, and surveys), including data collection and analysis to formulate recommendations in early childhood, elementary, and secondary education?
 I have 3+ years of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in program evaluations, as described above, regarding K–12 matters.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in preparing and presenting program briefings (e.g., presentations, lesson plans, trainings, evaluation of training, and/or orientations) to K-12 professionals or other adults in a classroom or professional forum?
 I have 3+ years of experience in preparing and presenting information to adults, as described above.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in preparing and presenting information to adults, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in preparing and presenting information, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
Have you ever held a School Liaison Officer (SLO) position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held an SLO position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held an SLO position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙