Position Title
FIREFIGHTER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NH-12936653-AF-25-167 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 25, 2026 to Apr 19, 2027
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


National Guard Requirements
Please choose the best option for each question. Read the questions carefully. Applicant is responsible for the accuracy of their answers. HR will not correct or modify your answers. If you have any questions or would like to verify we have successfully received your application, please feel free to contact us.


1.
Please choose the area of consideration that you are currently in.
 Area 4 - All Title 5 National Guard Employees currently employed with the New Hampshire National Guard.
 Area 5 - Military Technicians (Permanent and Indefinite) currently employed with the New Hampshire National Guard)
 Area 6 - All current Federal Employees (T5 from any agency)
 Area 7 - U. S. Citizens (includes AGR's, Temporary Technicians, and Active Duty in all states and territories)
 I am not a U.S. Citizen


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Firefighter, GS-0081-06. Respond to all questions. For each, choose the response that best describes your experience and/or training. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application.


1.
General Experience: Do you possess work experience or military service that demonstrated the ability to follow directions and to read, understand, and retain a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures and that otherwise demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of the position as a firefighter?


1a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


2.
Specialized Experience: Do you possess specialized experience (1) controlling or extinguishing fires as a member of an organized military, industrial, volunteer, or governmental fire department or brigade; (2) rescue operations; (3) detection, reduction, or elimination of potential fire hazards; (4) operation of fire communications equipment; (5) controlling hazardous materials incidents and/or (6) developing, implementing, or providing training in fire protection and prevention?


2a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


3.
Highly Qualified: To be considered a highly qualified candidate you must possess telecommunications 1 and 2. Do you currently possess through the DoD Firefighter Certification system or equivalent telecommunications 1 and 2?


3a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


4.
Specialized Experience: Do you possess experience as a firefighter engaged in airfield and structural firefighting?


4a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


5.
Drive and operate firefighting vehicles, such as pumpers, water tankers, and Airport Rescue Fire Fighting (ARFF) vehicles.


5a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


6.
Drive to the scene of the fire following a predetermined route or selecting an alternate when necessary and positions vehicle considering factors, such as wind direction, sources of water, hazards from falling structures, location of armament of aircraft, etc.


6a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


7.
Perform crash/rescue and firefighting duties at airfields handling predominantly large or complex aircraft (e.g. Fighters, bombers, cargo, and passenger).


7a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


8.
Participates in controlling and extinguishing fires by operating hoses, ladders, and hydrants.


8a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


9.
Maintain firefighting equipment and fire station facilities.


9a.
Please explain your experience to the above question.


10.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙