Position Title
Supervisory Attorney Advisor (Employee Labor Relations)
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12861291-26-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 06, 2026 to Jan 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answers to the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Do you possess a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) or Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree?
 Yes, I possess an LL.B. or a J.D. degree.
 No, I do NOT possess this education. RESPONSE TYPE: Short Answer Textbox


2.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your degree and the name of the College or University from which it was conferred/awarded
(MM/YYYY Name, e.g. 05/2010 University of Virginia).
RESPONSE TYPE: Multiple Choice - Single Select


3.
Are you an active member of the bar, duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of any state, territory of the U.S.,
or the District of Columbia?

 Yes, I am an active member of the bar duly licensed and authorized to practice law as an attorney under the laws of a U.S. state, territory, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia.
 No, I am NOT a member of the bar. RESPONSE TYPE: Short Answer Textbox


4.
Provide the month and year in which you obtained your first license and the State from which it was issued (MM/YYYY ST, e.g. 05/2010 VA).


5.
Required
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for the Attorney Advisor GS-15 position.

 Yes, I have 4 full years (48 months) of post J.D. or LL.B professional legal experience. Qualifying professional legal experience includes: Developing case strategy, tactics, and presenting the Agency's position in litigation before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, Merit Systems Protection Board, Federal Labor Relations Authority, and/or the Federal Service Impasses Panel, from initial complaint or charge until conclusion of the administrative process; providing oral and written legal guidance on a broad range of federal employment law and/or federal labor-management relations matters including adverse actions, performance management, equal employment opportunity issues and/or labor-management relations to management officials; and conducting settlement negotiations, coordinating with management officials on terms of settlement, and advising when adverse litigation decisions should be appealed. (NOTE: qualifying experience is calculated only after receipt of LL.B. or J.D.)
 No, I do NOT have this experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙