Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13033746O-TSN-0343-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. (CA7226) 3211 S Northpointe Dr, Fresno, CA
 F. (CA0281)1301 Clay St, Oakland, CA
 G. (CO1811) 1999 Broadway, Denver, CO
 H. (DC0022) 1111 Constitution NW, Washington, DC
 I. (FL0068) 400 W Bay St, Jacksonville, FL
 J. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 K. (IN1862) 4030 Vincennes Rd, Indianapolis, IN
 L. (KY2032) 333 Scott St, Covington, KY
 M. (MD0428) 100 S Charles St, Baltimore, MD
 N. (MD0278) 5000 Ellin Rd, Lanham, MD
 O. (MA0137) 310 Lowell St, Andover, MA
 P. (MO1937) 333 W Pershing Rd, Kansas City, MO
 Q. (MO0106) 1222 Spruce St, Saint Louis, MO
 R. (NY6466) 2875 Union Rd, Cheektowaga, NY
 S. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Ave, Holtsville, NY
 T. (OH0192) 1240 E Ninth St, Cleveland, OH
 U. (OR6728) 100 SW Main St, Portland, OR
 V. (PA0809) 2970 Market St, Philadelphia, PA
 W. (PA0233) 1000 Liberty Ave, Pittsburgh, PA
 X. (PR4066) CARR 28 KM 2.0, Bayamon, PR
 Y. (TN2709) 127 International Dr, Franklin, TN
 Z. (TN0005) 5333 Getwell Rd, Memphis, TN
 AA. (TX2038) 3651 S IH-35, Austin, TX
 AB. (TX1962) 1821 Directors Blvd, Austin, TX
 AC. (TX0058) 1114 Commerce St, Dallas, TX
 AD. (UT1428) 1973 N Rulon White, Ogden, UT
 B. (UT0036) 1160 W 1200 S, Ogden, UT
 C. (VA0088) 400 N 8th St, Richmond, VA
 D. (WA0101) 915 Second Ave, Seattle, WA
 E. (WV0273) 1250 Edwin Miller Blv, Martinsburg, WV


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Demonstrated accomplishment of a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods and techniques, both qualitative and quantitative; management and organizational principles to apply to programs, projects and studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of operations and means to improve them. Experience with project management to evaluate complex projects and studies and the ability to identify problem areas, trends, deficiencies, and other similar factors affecting operations. Your experience must include budgeting methods and techniques to prepare analyses and estimates; oral communication techniques to present findings, deliver briefings, and negotiate solutions to disputed recommendations.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Demonstrated accomplishment of a wide range of analytical and evaluative methods and techniques, both qualitative and quantitative; management and organizational principles to apply to programs, projects and studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of operations and means to improve them. Experience with project management to evaluate complex projects and studies and the ability to identify problem areas, trends, deficiencies, and other similar factors affecting operations. Your experience must include budgeting methods and techniques to prepare analyses and estimates; oral communication techniques to present findings, deliver briefings, and negotiate solutions to disputed recommendations.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


2.
Which of the following best describes your experience working on teams?

 Participated on an external work team (outside of your immediate work group).
 Participated on a special project (within your work group).
 Participated on an internal work team.
 None of the above.


3.
Which response best characterizes how you have responded to project deadlines?

 Followed management's prioritized projects/assignments to meet deadlines.
 Prioritized my project/assignment to meet established deadlines.
 Prioritized several projects/assignments to meet competing deadlines.
 Collaborated with stakeholders/customers to establish project deadlines and prioritize projects/assignments to meet assigned work deadlines.
 None of the above.


4.
Which best describes how you have managed your workload?

 Worked on an assignment as directed.
 Worked on multiple assignments that have competing priorities.
 Worked on assignments that I have prioritized.
 Worked on multiple assignments with shifting priorities, while assisting other co-workers with their workload or projects.
 None of the above.


5.
Which of the following verbal communication methods have you used to provide customer service/ satisfaction?

 A. Provided verbal status for a work assignment to my work group.
 B. Assisted in presenting findings as directed for my work group.
 C. Participated with interviewing customer/stakeholders.
 D. Called vendors to gather information as directed.
 E. Represented your work group at meetings or conference calls.
 F. None of the above.


6.
What is your highest level of experience writing?

 Contributed to written documentation for my workgroup.
 Drafted written documentation for review by my supervisor.
 Prepared written documentation for upper management requiring minimal revisions.
 Independently prepared written documentation for Executives.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following documents have you written or assisted in drafting?
 A. Standard operating procedures (SOP's), desk guides, and/or job aids.
 B. Business writing (e.g., formats).
 C. Business continuity plans for emergency disaster recovery.
 D. contractual requests [e.g., statements of work (SOW), memorandum of understanding (MOU), change requests, etc.].
 E. Training materials.
 F. Formal response to a request for information.
 G. Inter-organizational documents (e.g., cross-divisional agreements, memorandum of understanding, memorandum of agreement).
 H. None of the above.


8.
Select the types of analytical systems/tools you have used to extract and analyze information.

 A. Automated administrative support systems (e.g. employee resource center, requisition tracking system, project tracking system, etc.).
 B. Automated learning management system to support occupational training for employees (e.g. ELMS/ITMS).
 C. Spreadsheet software (e.g., Excel).
 D. Databases (e.g., Access).
 E. SharePoint.
 F. Microsoft Project, PowerPoint, etc.
 G. None of the above.


9.
Select the types of research and analysis tasks you have completed.

 A. Researched and analyzed basic information, requests, and/or presented findings.
 B. Researched and analyzed discrepancies or gaps as directed.
 C. Researched and analyzed potential alternatives for resolution of issues.
 D. None of the above.


10.
Choose the following experiences that apply to you:

 A. Participated on a cross-organizational team.
 B. Coordinated the activities of a team within my workgroup.
 C. Recommended alternatives or changes in methods, processes, or techniques to improve the effectiveness of my workgroup.
 D. None of the above.


11.
Which of the following tasks have you completed when interacting with your customers?

 A. Analyzed, identified, captured, and assessed detailed stakeholder requirements/needs.
 B. Researched technical matters as directed.
 C. Researched, explained, and resolved or proposed resolutions for technical problems.
 D. Drafted analytical reports for review by a higher-level analyst.
 E. Recommended, developed, or modified procedural improvements.
 F. Interpreted policies and/ or procedures.
 G. Reviewed customer's documentation and provided appropriate feedback.
 H. Coordinated and/or reviewed customer's documentation by other analysts.
 I. None of the above.


12.
Which of the following describes your interpersonal skills?

 A. Interacted with customers to understand their needs.
 B. Listened to customer requests and documented responses for future workgroup action.
 C. Developed work products as directed to meet business needs.
 D. Provided assistance to fellow team members.
 E. Reviewed work products and provided feedback.
 F. Facilitated or mediated customer complaints.
 G. Provided guidance and direction on specific programs.
 H. Negotiated and/ or facilitated intergroup agreements (e.g., cross-divisional agreement, memorandum of understanding, memorandum of agreement).
 I. None of the above.


13.
Choose the following experiences that apply to you:

 A. Researched and analyzed complex information, requests, and/or situations and presented findings.
 B. Analyzed potential alternatives to issues and presented proposals for resolution.
 C. Reviewed the findings of others and recommended potential alternatives for resolution of issues.
 D. Researched and determined root causes of problems.
 E. Analyzed discrepancies and gaps.
 F. Recommended potential alternatives for resolution of issues.
 G. None of the above.


14.
What is your leadership experience?

 A. Led a cross-functional/organizational team.
 B. Served as an acting team lead.
 C. Served on a formal temporary and/or permanent assignment as a manager.
 D. Served as a point of contact (POC).
 E. Served as a subject matter expert (SME).
 F. None of the above.


15.
Which of the following describe(s) your experience responding to time-sensitive action items?

 A. Identified problems and elevated issues as needed.
 B. Completed work products and activities according to established deadlines.
 C. Responded to requests for information.
 D. Mitigated issues/challenges identified to meet deadlines and developed contingency plans.
 E. Initiated and completed project activities and work products to meet competing deadlines.
 F. Responded to data calls or ad hoc requests for information.
 G. Established priorities, set deadlines, and monitored status to ensure timely completion of multiple work activities.
 H. Collected and compiled information for data call response or ad hoc requests including follow up activities or tasks.
 I. None of the above.


16.
Choose the following experiences that apply to you.

 A. Interviewed customer/stakeholders.
 B. Authored and presented briefings to management.
 C. Authored and presented briefings to a cross- functional team.
 D. Facilitated meetings or conference calls that included formal agendas and meeting notes or minutes.
 E. Called vendors to gather information, clarify discrepancies, and negotiate and/ or resolve issues.
 F. Verbally represented your business unit at a cross- organizational meeting or conference call.
 G. Verbally briefed your team on technical matters at management's request.
 H. None of the above.


17.
To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must list the month/year and number of hours worked for experience listed on your resume. Your resume must support your responses to the questions. Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination?

 Yes
 No


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙