Position Title
ELECTRONICS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
Announcement Number
MCGP-26-13004313 DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 13, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
Before you are hired, you must sign and certify the accuracy of the information in your application. If you misrepresent your experience or education, or provide false or fraudulent information in or with your application, it may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work. Making false or fraudulent statements also may be punishable by fine or imprisonment. Do you agree to sign and certify the accuracy of the information in your application?

 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG). A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electronics Mechanic Supervisor position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electronics Mechanic Supervisor duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Electronics Mechanic Supervisor duties. I am skilled in Investigating work-related problems such as excessive costs or low productivity, and determining the cause; planning current and future work schedules, budget requests, staffing needs, and estimates; planning current and future work schedules, budget requests, estimates; making recommendations as to scheduling painting projects; and assigning the amount of manpower needed to complete an air defense missile system repair job in an efficient amount of time. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Electronics Mechanic Supervisor duties. I am skilled in investigating work-related problems such as excessive costs or low productivity, and determining the cause; planning current and future work schedules, budget requests, and estimates; and assigning the amount of manpower needed to complete an air defense missile system repair job in an efficient amount of time. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Electronics Mechanic Supervisor duties such as planning current and future work schedules, budget requests, staffing needs, estimates, and recommendations as to scheduling projects; and assigning the amount of manpower needed to complete an air defense missile system repair job in an efficient amount of time. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Electronics Mechanic Supervisor duties or I have received training in leading air defense missile system repair work.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes. I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙