Position Title
Mechanical Engineer (Recent Graduate)
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVH-26-DE-13027783-TJP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program?  Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
 
For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/recent-graduates
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11


2.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Mechanical Engineer position with the Department of the Interior. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


Basic education and GS-05: Individual Occupational Requirements for a Mechanical Engineer GS-0830


1.
From the description below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic requirements for a Mechanical Engineer GS-0830.
 I possess a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I possess a combination of education and experience -- college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT)1, or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. 2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE)2 examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program as described in paragraph A. 4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor?s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all inclusive.)
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements described above.


Minimum Qualifications for a Mechanical Engineer GS-0830-07


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Mechanical Engineer at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes but not limited to: Perform trainee level duties to assist higher-graded engineers in data collection, designs; knowledge of mechanical engineering concepts.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate level education (18 semester hours) in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as Mechanical Engineering. Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 I am claiming Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled, such as that identified in B above. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - You must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - You must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership - You may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing for further verification.
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


Minimum Qualifications for a Mechanical Engineer GS-0830-09


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Mechanical Engineer at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes but not limited to: Provide support to higher-graded engineers in reviewing inspection data of equipment/systems; knowledge of mechanical engineering concepts; experience developing mechanical engineering designs and plans for mechanical utility systems using computer software.
 I have successfully completed a masters or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years (36 semester hours) of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Mechanical Engineering. Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


Minimum Qualifications for a Mechanical Engineer GS-0830-11


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Mechanical Engineer at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes but not limited to: Performing more independent data collection, designs, preparing cost estimates, and engineering duties concerned with design, construction, maintenance and operation for hydroelectric powerplants, pumping plant, dams, reservoirs, canal structures, various offices and shop facilities; knowledge of mechanical engineering concepts; perform inspections and investigation of equipment/systems.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years (54 semester hours) of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Mechanical Engineering. Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙