Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic Leader, WL-4749-10, MP
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12845062-NE-KA, IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, December 5, 2025 to Monday, December 15, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Applicants will be evaluated on their ability to perform the duties of the position rather than the length of experience. Eligibility will be determined by the relevance, scope, and quality of all experience and training, regardless of where or how acquired.

Applicants will be rated and ranked based on their knowledge of the following job elements:


1.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience leading and managing people?
 I do not have education, training or experience related to this task.
 I have education or training in performing this task, but have not performed this task on the job.
 I have directly five or fewer employees, including having responsibility for their job performance, job outcomes, and providing performance appraisals.
 I have directly supervised a division of employees (division defined as: 7 or more) and have been directly responsible for setting and meeting the division's goals and milestones in support of the larger organization's mission.


2.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience performing follow-up inspection of areas plumbing, electrical, mechanical (HVAC), carpentry, and general construction work?
 I have not had experience, education, or training in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed this task on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of the job, independently and usually without review by supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task, and/or I have trained others in performance and/or am normally consulted as an expert for assistance in performing this task.


3.
Have you performed the work of a HVAC Mechanic without greater than normal supervision?
 Yes
 No


4.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience inspecting work in progress and completed efforts on preventative maintenance, corrective maintenance, alterations and/or minor construction contracts?
 I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 I have performed this task, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 I performed this task as a supervisor.
 None of the above.


5.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience in electrical and A/C Equipment mechanic trade practices, techniques, tools, devices test and other related equipment in order to conduct scheduled maintenance work and repairs?
 I have completed education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 I have performed this task, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 None of the above.


6.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience selecting the proper tools to use for each job?
 I have completed education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have assisted with or performed this task at the apprentice level, under close supervision.
 I have performed this task, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or am called on to perform unusually difficult jobs related to this topic.
 None of the above.


7.
Which test equipment/measuring instruments have you used to diagnose or repair HVAC equipment?
 A. Refrigeration gauges
 B. Recovery units
 C. Leak detectors
 D. Amp probes
 E. Ohm meters
 F. Volt meters
 G. Manometers
 H. Electronic controls
 I. None of the above


8.
Which answer best describes your ability to do the work of a maintenance mechanic?
 I know little or nothing about this
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have used my knowledge or ability at the apprentice level and have been closely supervised.
 I have independently used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision
 I am consulted by other journeymen in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs


9.
Which statement best describes your highest level of experience interpreting specifications in technical manuals, updates, etc. to ensure electrical equipment was properly installed, overhauled, adjusted, repaired and/or maintained?
 I know little or nothing about this task.
 I have had education or training in this task, but no actual experience performing it on the job.
 I have used my knowledge or ability as a trainee or apprentice, being closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision to regularly perform this task.
 I am consulted by others in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs related to this task.


10.
. From the list below select the areas that you have performed at the journeyman level
 A. Electrical
 B. HVAC
 C. Heating
 D. Refrigeration
 E. Plumbing
 F. None of the above.


11.
Which HVAC controls have you repaired or maintained?
 A. Controls that scheduled on/off of specified rooftop units
 B. Control zone temperature set points
 C. Controls that monitored zone temperatures
 D. Controls that recorded and displayed feedback on unit performance
 E. Electrical/Electronic
 F. Microprocessor based
 G. Pneumatic
 H. None of the above


12.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙