Position Title
AIRCRAFT ENGINE MECHANIC
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-13014812-AF-26-376-T Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Air National Guard?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E3 through E6?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess the experience or training that has provided the ability to perform assembly and disassembly operations and make prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories in accordance with technical specifications, procedures, and requirements; experience using hand and power tools common to the trade?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess the experience or training performing standard, routine assembly and disassembly operations and making prescribed modifications to aircraft engines, engine assemblies, and accessories; experience or training performing maintenance overhaul, troubleshooting, testing, and repair of aircraft engines, engine components, and powertrains for fixed and/or rotary wing aircraft; experience determining maintenance needed from work orders, inspection reports, historical records, and diagnosis?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Troubleshoots malfunctioning engines and interrelated propulsion system components, determines degree of disassembly or certification required, repairs or replaces defective components, diagnostic computers and associated hardware. Analyzes malfunctions using schematic and wiring diagrams, blueprints, manufacturer's specifications, computer diagnostics data, inspection findings, trending data and aircrew debriefs. Performs engine run operation on installed and uninstalled engines to troubleshoot malfunctions or verify findings. Removes and installs engines and auxiliary power units. Operates, Automated Ground Test Systems (AGETS), trouble-shoots and repairs aircraft jet engines. 
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙