Position Title
Auditor
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
USDA-OIG-MP-13040864-26-BTG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 17, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


2.
All current federal employees must have a minimum performance rating of acceptable or higher to be considered for placement. Appraisal must be included in Applicant's submission. Current federal employees who have a current unacceptable performance rating will be excluded from consideration. Note: Failure to select one of the below responses will render you ineligible for further consideration.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current acceptable performance rating or higher.
 I am a current federal employee and have a current unacceptable performance rating.
 I am a new current federal employee and have not received a performance rating as of this date.
 Not applicable, I am not a current federal employee.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.


1.
To qualify for this position, you must meet one of the basic education requirements described below. (You MUST submit copies of your proof of education as described in the vacancy announcement; failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement may result in an Ineligible rating.)
 I have a bachelor's or higher degree in auditing or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, public administration, or accounting.
 I have a combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. My background also includes one of the following: (A) certificate as a Certified Internal Auditor or a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination; OR (B) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in auditing or accounting, e.g., 15 semester hours.
 I do not meet the basic requirements as stated above.


2.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience that demonstrates you meet the minimum qualification requirements for the Auditor, GS-0511-13.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service or the equivalent in the private sector which includes providing day-to-day leadership and oversight to audit team members by maintaining knowledge and control of the audit process by means of oral or written progress reports.
 I do not meet the requirements described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your knowledge of government standards, procedures, and practices for conducting audits and inspections involving federal government-wide programs, functions, and systems.

 As a primary responsibility, I have used the appropriate professional standards, procedures, and practices to conduct complex and high-profile performance, IT, and/or financial audits and/or inspections involving federal government-wide programs, functions, and systems.
 As a primary responsibility, I have used the appropriate professional standards, procedures and practices for conducting inspections on engagements involving multiple government agencies and programs.
 I have participated in a peer review of another audit organization.
 I have received training on the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS) and the Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency, (CIGIE) inspection standards.
 None of the above.


4.
From the descriptions below, choose all of the auditing and/or inspection activities that were your major responsibility (Select all that apply).

 A. Researching laws, regulations, policies, and procedures that are relevant to the audit subject matter.
 B. Researching laws, regulations, policies, and procedures that are relevant to the inspection subject matter.
 C. Leading interviews during fieldwork.
 D. Analyzing and summarizing evidence in working papers that address the audit project objectives.
 E. Analyzing and summarizing evidence in working papers that address the inspection project objectives.
 F. Developing audit findings in accordance with the Yellow Book (Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards).
 G. Developing inspection findings in accordance with Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (CIGIE) Quality Standards for Inspections and Evaluations.
 H. Developing audit programs which address the engagement objective.
 I. Developing inspection programs which address the engagement objective.
 J. Conducting internal control assessments.
 K. Conducting data analysis to identify trends, patterns, or anomalies not in compliance with stated criteria.
 L. Researching, developing, presenting new audit and/or inspection ideas for strategic annual planning.
 M. None of the above.


5.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience serving as a member of an audit and/or inspection team.

 As a team member, I have identified and fully developed multiple complex audit and/or inspection findings and effective recommendations which were included in final published reports.
 As a team member, I have identified and fully developed an audit and/or inspection finding and effective recommendations which were included in a final published report.
 As a team member, I have conducted research, gathered documentation and data by means of interviews, observations, and other appropriate methods to identify program issues.
 I have served as a member of an audit team, utilizing my professional and comprehensive knowledge of accounting and auditing theories, practices, methods, and techniques.
 None of the above.


6.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your ability to communicate orally.

 I have answered employees? questions and provided information on a variety of audit and/or inspection functions.
 I have made presentations and answered questions on audit and/or inspection issues such as interviews, observations, and other appropriate fact-finding techniques.
 I have briefed senior management officials and answered questions on audit and/or inspection progress, project challenges, and results.
 I have successfully completed college level course work in speech/communication.
 None of the above.


7.
From the descriptions below, choose the responses that describes the extent to which you have communicated orally in order to obtain and provide information.

 I have communicated orally with supervisors, managers, or office personnel on complex and sensitive topics and delivered organizational briefings such as trainings to convey information on program activities.
 I have worked one-on-one with individuals to improve their oral communication skills as requested by management.
 I have communicated orally with supervisors, managers, or office personnel to notify them of decisions, problems, or further action needed.
 I have communicated orally with others to obtain or verify information or to provide routine information.
 None of the above.


8.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your experience to build communication through influencing and negotiation.

 I have applied appropriate negotiation approaches and techniques with Agency executive level leadership to find mutually beneficial solutions to findings and issues identified during audit and/or inspection work and obtained managements? agreement on recommendations.
 I have worked closely with Agency program level leadership providing input and recommendations on issues impacting the Agency?s activities and was instrumental in determining how to rectify identified defects.
 I have worked in groups and teams, conducting briefings and other meetings, gaining cooperation from others to obtain information and accomplish goals, facilitating win-win situations.
 I have knowledge of negotiation approaches but have not applied it on the job.
 None of the above.


9.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience in problem solving in order to successfully complete an audit and/or inspection.

 I have worked with a team of peers to identify and resolve problems on an audit and/or inspection.
 I have worked independently to identify and resolve problems on an audit and/or inspection.
 I have worked independently to identify problems and worked with a team to resolve those problems on an audit and/or inspection.
 I have led a team that encountered or identified problems on an audit and/or inspection and worked with the team to successfully resolve the problems.
 None of the above.


10.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your experience defining problem areas in connection with audit and/or inspection assignments.

 I have identified trends and patterns in agency data or information, developed solutions, and presented findings to address the problem areas.
 I have acquired information, analyzed data, and examined results to identify a problem area that is not in compliance with government auditing and/or inspection standards, regulations, and policies.
 I have utilized problem solving skills by gathering agency data, conducting research to determine the cause and effect, and developed a finding that clearly identifies the regulation or policy in question for which there are no precedents.
 I have identified criteria utilizing auditing and/or inspection standards and other means to assess and analyze a variety of unusual problems and conditions.
 None of the above.


11.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience working within a team to complete assignments within scheduled time frames.

 I have handled multiple projects and duties simultaneously, planning, delegating, and prioritizing my assignments as needed to remain accountable to meet my established deadlines, and assisted others with completing their assignments to ensure the team, as a whole, met our deadlines.
 I have collaborated with team members to share ideas and support others by encouraging innovation, thereby pooling our strengths and talents to expand knowledge and skill sets among team members.
 I have responded to changing priorities and resources with optimism, encouraging team members to respond positively and proactively.
 I have planned, delegated, and prioritized my assignments as needed to remain accountable to meet my established deadlines, and assisted others with completing their assignments to ensure the team, as a whole, met our deadlines.
 None of the above.


12.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best describes your experience in providing technical guidance and collaborating with team members when completing audits and/or inspection engagements.

 I have overseen multiple teams, serving as an authority and advisor on the acceptability and applicability of audit and/or inspection matters in accordance with professional standards, government-wide initiatives, laws, regulations, industry trends, and policies that impact the work.
 I have served as a team lead, serving as an authority and advisor on the acceptability and applicability of audit and/or inspection matters in accordance with professional standards, government-wide initiatives, laws, regulations, industry trends, and policies that impact the work.
 I have served as a team member, reviewing data for accuracy, reliability and/or completeness by applying professional standards.
 I have provided advise to co-workers on unusual or difficult issues and resolved questions and problems encountered during audits and/or inspections in accordance with professional standards.
 None of the above.


13.
From the descriptions below, choose the responses that describe your ability to communicate in writing. (Select all that apply).

 A. I have written correspondence and memoranda.
 B. I have developed PowerPoint presentations relating to program activities.
 C. I have reviewed memoranda or documents for completeness, correctness and consistency with policies and procedures.
 D. I have successfully completed college level course work in English, Writing, or Literature.
 E. I have assisted with writing documents, such as audit, inspection, and evaluation reports.
 F. I have written technical reports relating to an audit and/or inspection.
 G. I have assisted with writing Semi-Annual Reports to Congress.
 H. I have assisted with writing Congressional testimonies.
 I. None of the above.


14.
From the descriptions below, choose the response that best demonstrates your ability to take initiative and work independently in completing writing assignments such as work papers, findings, and audit and/or inspection reports.

 I have executed writing assignments, such as work papers, findings, and audit and/or inspection reports, provided by a supervisor with some help and guidance from others.
 I have independently performed writing assignments, such as work papers, findings, and audit and/or inspection reports, provided by a supervisor with minimal oversight and guidance.
 I have provided input and suggestions on what needs to be done and independently executed the tasks to complete writing assignments, such as work papers, findings, and audit and/or inspection reports.
 I have independently determined that written materials, such as work papers, findings, and audit and/or inspection reports, contain the proper elements in the proper order and in the correct format, and suggested changes that improve readability, persuasiveness, and coherence.
 None of the above.


15.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent, or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding ?no? to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙