Position Title
Physician (Multiple Specialties)
Agency
Indian Health Service
Announcement Number
IHS-26-HQ-12844254-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a recipient of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) Health Profession Scholarship authorized under Public Law 94-437?
If yes, confirm:
You have completed or will be completing the requirements of the approved health profession program within the established timeframe
Meet all eligibility criteria
Entitled to a one-time priority referral/selection to fulfill their obligation to provide public service
You will be required to submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are pending completion of a health profession degree submit a copy of your transcripts and written proof from the education institution's registrar which provides the date for completing the professional program.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an American Indian/Alaska Native who is enrolled in a federally recognized tribe as defined by the Secretary of Interior? The Indian Health Service gives qualified American Indian/Alaska Natives preference when filling vacancies in accordance with the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (Title 25, USC, Section 472), with approved exceptions.

If eligible, submit a copy of your Bureau of Indian Affairs Form 4432, "Verification of Indian preference for employment in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service," that has been completed by authorized tribal or BIA Officials. For more information, review the IHS Indian Preference guidelines: http://www.ihs.gov/jobs/permanentDocs/indianpreference.pdf.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


6.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
 A. Chinle, AZ
 AB. Inscription House, AZ
 AP. Kayenta, AZ
 AQ. Maricopa, AZ
 AR. Parker, AZ
 AS. Peach Springs, AZ
 AT. Phoenix, AZ
 AU. Pinon, AZ
 AV. Polacca, AZ
 AW. Red Mesa, AZ
 AX. Supai, AZ
 AY. Tsaile, AZ
 AZ. Whiteriver, AZ
 BA. Winterhaven, CA
 BB. Towaoc, CO
 BC. Fort Hall, ID
 BD. Lawrence, KS
 BE. Mashpee, MA
 BF. Cass Lake, MN
 BG. Mahnomen, MN
 BH. Ogema, MN
 BI. Red Lake, MN
 BJ. Browning, MT
 BK. Crow Agency, MT
 BL. Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, MT
 BM. Lame Deer, MT
 B. Poplar, MT
 C. Wolf Point, MT
 D. Elko, NV
 E. Moapa, NV
 F. Albuquerque, NM
 G. Bloomfield, NM
 H. Crownpoint, NM
 I. Dulce, NM
 J. Gallup, NM
 K. Mescalero, NM
 L. Santa Fe, NM
 M. Shiprock, NM
 N. Taos, NM
 O. Tohatchi, NM
 P. Zuni, NM
 Q. Lockport, NY
 R. Belcourt, ND
 S. Fort Yates, ND
 T. Anadarko, OK
 U. Carnegie, OK
 V. Clinton, OK
 W. El Reno, OK
 X. Lawton, OK
 Y. Pawnee, OK
 Z. Watonga, OK
 AA. Wewoka, OK
 AC. Salem, OR
 AD. Warm Springs, OR
 AE. Eagle Butte, SD
 AF. Fort Thompson, SD
 AG. Lower Brule, SD
 AH. McLaughlin, SD
 AI. Pine Ridge, SD
 AJ. Rosebud, SD
 AK. Sisseton, SD
 AL. Wagner, SD
 AM. Fort Duchesne, UT
 AN. Madison Heights, VA
 AO. Toppenish, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14
15


3.
Please select only 2 specialties that you would like to be considered for from the list below. (You must be qualified for the specialty.)
 A. Physician (Anatomic & Clinical Pathology)
 B. Physician (Anesthesiology)
 C. Physician (Cardiology)
 D. Physician (Dermatology)
 E. Physician (Emergency Medicine)
 F. Physician (Family Practice)
 G. Physician (General Surgery)
 H. Physician (Hospitalist)
 I. Physician (Informatics)
 J. Physician (Internal Medicine)
 K. Physician (Neurology)
 L. Physician (Obstetrics & Gynecology)
 M. Physician (Ophthalmology)
 N. Physician (Oral Surgery)
 O. Physician (Orthopedic Surgery)
 P. Physician (Otolaryngology)
 Q. Physician (Pathology)
 R. Physician (Palliative)
 S. Physician (Pediatrics)
 T. Physician (Preventive Medicine)
 U. Physician (Primary Care)
 V. Physician (Psychiatry)
 W. Physician (Radiology)
 X. Physician (Tele-Psychiatry)


4.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been arrested for or charged with certain crimes involving a child. Responding yes to this question can make you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position is covered by Public Law 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Protection Act (25 United States Code Chapter 34) requiring contact or control over Indian children. Due to this law, the agency must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere or guilty to certain crimes against persons or offenses committed against children. Responding yes to this question makes you ineligible for employment in this position. You will be contacted if additional information is required. Have you ever been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere (no contest) or guilty to, any felonious offense, or any two or more misdemeanor offenses under federal, state, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, exploitation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons; or offenses committed against children?
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that (1) my responses to questions one and two are made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by fine under title 18 of the United States Code, or imprisonment of not more than five years, or both; and (2) I have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted. I understand my right to obtain a copy of any criminal history report made available to the Indian Health Service and my right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report.
 Yes
 No


7.
Full Time Availability
 A. 16 or fewer hrs/week
 B. 17 to 24 hrs/week
 C. 25 to 32 hrs/week
 D. Intermittent (As needed basis)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Physician (Multiple Specialties) position with the Indian Health Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
SECTION I. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS AND FACTORS.


1.
BASIC REQUIREMENT - DEGREE 
In order to qualify for this position, you must meet the degree requirements for a physician position. Select the response that most closely and accurately describes your background and which demonstrates how you meet the education requirements.
 I have a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy from a school in the United States or Canada approved by a recognized accrediting body in the year of the applicant's graduation at the time the degree was obtained.
 I have a Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school that provided education and medical knowledge substantially equivalent to accredited schools in the United States as demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG).
 I have a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country.
 I have successful completed the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.
 I do not have the degree requirements as described above.


2.
BASIC REQUIREMENT - GRADUATE TRAINING
Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy Medicine degree, all candidates must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting. Select the response that most accurately describes your graduate training background.
 I have completed a 1-year internship program which involved a broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have completed the first year of a residency program which involved training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (AMA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have completed a fellowship program which involved advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training.
 I do not have the graduate training as described above.


3.
BASIC REQUIREMENT - LICENSURE
This physician position provides direct patient care; as such, all eligible candidates must meet the licensure requirement.
 I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.
 I am pending licensure and understand that I am not able to officially enter on duty until I am fully licensed.
 I do not meet the licensure requirements as described above.


4.
IHS Agency Wide Selective Factor - GS-0602-13/14/15 - Board Certification/Residency/Diploma/Certificate:
In addition to meeting basic and minimum requirements, the following selective factor of requiring Board Certification is determined to be essential to perform the duties and responsibilities of the position.  Applicants must meet one of the following requirements for all grade levels. Please select only one of the responses below:
 I am Board Certified (ABMS or NBPAS) in the Specialty to which I am applying. (Must provide a copy of your board certification).
 I have a Residency Diploma/Certificate or 9 months of meeting the residency requirements from an accredited residency program indicating successful completion within the past three years. (Must provide a copy of your residency diploma/certificate).
 It has been three or more years since I have completed an accredited residency program and I understand that I must provide a copy of your residency diploma/certificate and documentation to verify active pursuit of Board Certification in the specialty in which I am applying.
 I do not meet the Selective Factor.


5.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, GS-0602-13
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-13.  Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have completed 3 years of residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.
 I am applying within 9 months of meeting the residency requirements. I understand that evidence of meeting the requirements must be provided and verified prior to entrance on duty.
 I do not meet the residency, experience, or training as described above.


6.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, GS-0602-14
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-14.  Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have completed 4 years of residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.
 I am applying within 9 months of meeting the residency requirements. I understand that evidence of meeting the requirements must be provided and verified prior to entrance on duty.
 I do not meet the residency, experience, or training as described above.


7.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS, GS-0602-15
From the descriptions below, select the response that best describes your experience which demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GS-15. Select only one response and do not leave blank.
 I have completed 5 years of residency training in the specialty of the position to be filled or equivalent experience and training.
 I am applying within 9 months of meeting the residency requirements. I understand that evidence of meeting the requirements must be provided and verified prior to entrance on duty.
 I do not meet the residency, experience, or training as described above.


SECTION II. CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY
As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

Certification of Information Accuracy
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙