Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12954432-AR-26-072 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
8
10


Conditions of Emplolyment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 and 2 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E7?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E1 - E7.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E1 - E7.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and is able to use common tools and equipment in the line of work.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-05: Do you possess 6 months experience or training using common hand tools in making repetitive repairs under close supervision. Experience which demonstrates the ability to perform the simpler and routine duties of the trade?
 Yes
 No


3.
WG-08: Do you possess 12 months experience or training using common hand and power tools and a small variety of test and measurement devices to make mechanical repairs. Experience removing, adjusting, replacing, cleaning, and installing a variety of parts, components, and accessories. Experience which demonstrates a basic understanding of mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic theory applying to vehicles; and skill to replace, fit, install, and make adjustments. Experience demonstrating an understanding of the makeup and operation of the various individual systems maintained and their interrelationships. Experience reading and interpreting parts lists, manufactures' repair manuals, diagrams, and electrical schematics?
 Yes
 No


4.
WG-10: Do you possess at least 18 months experience or training diagnosing, repairing, overhauling, and modifying more complex vehicles, equipment, and more complicated systems. Experience which has provided a thorough knowledge of diagnostic equipment. Experience applying independent judgment in determining methods and techniques required to solve unusually complex maintenance and repair problems. Experienced in testing, inspecting, and evaluating the work performed on vehicles, equipment and systems?
 Yes
 No


5.

Tell me about the most complex repair you have performed on a large vehicle.



6.

Describe a time you used diagnostic tools to find a difficult mechanical problem. What was the issue and how did you find it?



7.

Walk me through a time you had to completely rebuild a major part, such as an engine or transmission.



8.

Describe a time you had to work on a repair by yourself in the field. How did you also help or guide other mechanics on the team?



9.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙