Position Title
Mathematical Statistician DHA
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-12991513-26 RQ DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Los Angeles, CA
 C. Oakland, CA
 D. Pasadena, CA
 E. San Diego, CA
 F. Denver, CO
 G. Washington, DC
 H. Atlanta, GA
 I. Chicago, IL
 J. Woodlawn, MD
 K. Boston, MA
 L. Detroit, MI
 M. Kansas City, MO
 N. New York, NY
 O. Queens, NY
 P. Philadelphia, PA
 Q. Dallas, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


Assessment 1
Be sure to read the qualification requirements for this vacancy before you submit your resume. You must demonstrate specific experience and education to qualify.


Do not choose CTAP or ICTAP as your eligibility unless you were RIF'd from a Competitive Service position in the commuting area where you're applying AND you submit your RIF Notice AND your RIF SF-50. 


It is recommended (not required) that you use a computer to apply for this position -- applicants using a phone often miss key information.


If you experience difficulties while applying, use the links on the USAJobs website to seek help. If you're still unable to complete your application, submit a USAJobs Help Desk ticket to resolve the issue. You must also email Careers@ssa.gov with the SUBJECT LINE: "T-7 APPLICATION ISSUE 1299 1513" and provide details of the difficulties you're experiencing (with screenshots if applicable). This email must be received before the announcement closes. Technical difficulties reported after the announcement closes cannot be addressed.


To qualify for this Mathematical Statistician position you must demonstrate: (1) the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for the federal GS-1529 series AND (2) at least 52 weeks of Specialized Experience.* (See exception for GS-11 below.)


1.
IOR: Indicate how you meet the IOR for this position. Note that courses acceptable toward meeting the mathematics requirement must have included at least four of the following:

-- differential calculus
-- integral calculus
-- advanced calculus
-- theory of equations
-- vector analysis
-- advanced algebra
-- linear algebra
-- mathematical logic
-- differential equations or
-- another advanced course in mathematics for which one of these was a prerequisite.

Courses in mathematical statistics or probability theory with a prerequisite of elementary calculus or more advanced courses will be accepted toward meeting the mathematics requirements, with the provision that the same course cannot be counted toward both the mathematics and the statistics requirement. (You must submit all relevant transcripts or you cannot be considered for this position).

 I successfully completed a course of study in an accredited college or university resulting in a bachelor's or higher degree that includes at least 24 semester hours of mathematics (as indicated above) and statistics, of which at least 12 semester hours are in mathematics and 6 semester hours are in statistics. *You must provide all relevant transcripts to support this claim.
 In lieu of a degree, I successfully completed at least 24 semester hours of mathematics (as indicated above) and statistics, including at least 12 hours in mathematics and 6 hours in statistics, as shown in A above, supplemented by relevant experience or additional qualifying education. *You must provide all relevant transcripts to support this claim, as well as a description of your qualifying experience. This experience must be in addition to the Specialized Experience required below.
 I do not meet the Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) for this series.


Experience claimed in combination with education (to meet IOR Option B above) should include evidence of statistical work such as (1) sampling, (2) collecting, computing and analyzing statistical data and (3) applying known statistical techniques to data such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance and tests of significance.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-11


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-11 must have been gained in a federal position at or above GS-09 OR (if your position is on another federal pay scale OR outside of federal service) by performing duties at a level of responsibility and difficulty equivalent to GS-09 or above.


2.
Indicate how you meet the SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for the GS-11 position. SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE is work that primarily consists of applying mathematical or statistical theory to collect and organize numerical data to provide usable information.
 I’m not applying at the GS-11 level.
 I have at least 52 weeks performing GS-09 level work that includes : (1) participating as a data analyst/mathematical statistician in studies involving large datasets and mathematical/statistical analytical techniques and processes; (2) transforming data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS or SQL; and (3) summarizing methodologies and findings in writing for a project leader or supervisor. **This experience must be clearly described in your resume or you cannot be considered for this position. If your experience was gained in a federal position, you must upload an SF-50 documenting your grade at the time the experience was gained.**
 *GS-11 Exception To Specialized Experience: In lieu of Specialized Experience I have a Ph.D. in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related competencies necessary for this position. *I will submit a transcript showing my degree. This education must be in addition to the education used to meet the IOR.
 *GS-11 Exception To Specialized Experience: In lieu of Specialized Experience or a Ph.D. I have successfully completed at least 3 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. (or equivalent degree) in a course of study that directly reflects the job-related competencies for this position. *I will submit a transcript showing the qualifying courses I successfully completed. This education must be in addition to the education used to meet the IOR.
 *GS-11 Exception To Specialized Experience: In lieu of the full amount of Specialized Experience or the full amount of Optional Education, I have a portion of each that can be combined to meet the full requirement. *I will submit transcripts to support my educational claim and my resume will describe my experience. Only education beyond the second year of graduate education can be used for this option and it must be in addition to the education used to meet the IOR. If your experience was gained in a federal position, you must upload an SF-50 documenting your grade at the time the experience was gained.** (HR will determine if the combination of experience and education is sufficient to meet the requirements.)
 My experience and/or optional education for this GS-11 position is not reflected above.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-12


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-12 must have been gained in a federal position at or above GS-11 OR (if your position is on another federal pay scale OR outside of federal service) by performing duties at a level of responsibility and difficulty equivalent to GS-11 or above.


3.
Do you have the SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE required for the GS-12 position? SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE is work that primarily consists of developing or applying mathematical or statistical theory to collect, organize, interpret or summarize numerical data to provide usable information.
 I’m not applying for the GS-12 position.
 Yes. I have at least 52 weeks performing GS-11 level work that includes: (1) performing studies involving large datasets and mathematical/statistical analytical techniques and processes; (2) transforming data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS or SQL; and (3) summarizing methodologies and findings in writing for a project leader or supervisor. **This experience must be clearly described in your resume or you cannot be considered for this position. If your experience was gained in a federal position, you must upload an SF-50 documenting your grade at the time the experience was gained.**
 My experience for this GS-12 position is not reflected above.


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-13


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE for GS-13 must have been gained in a federal position at or above GS-12 OR (if your position is on another federal pay scale OR your experience is outside of federal service) by performing duties at a level of responsibility and difficulty equivalent to GS-12 or above.


4.
Do you have the SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE required for the GS-13 position? SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE is work that primarily consists of developing or applying mathematical and statistical theory and methods to collect, organize, interpret and summarize numerical data to provide usable information.
 I’m not applying for the GS-13 position.
 Yes. I have at least 52 weeks performing GS-12 level work that includes: (1) overseeing studies involving large datasets and mathematical/statistical analytical techniques and processes; (2) transforming data into a form suitable for analysis using R, Python, SAS or SQL; and (3) summarizing methodologies and findings in writing for technical and non-technical audiences. **This experience must be clearly described in your resume or you cannot be considered for this position. If your experience was gained in a federal position, you must upload an SF-50 documenting your grade at the time the experience was gained.**
 My experience for this GS-13 position is not reflected above.


5.
I read the IOR and Specialized Experience requirements under the QUALIFICATIONS and EDUCATION sections of the announcement and understand I will initially be evaluated on the relevant experience I describe in my resume, as well as the education I support with my transcripts. If this information is not sufficient to demonstrate Minimum Qualifications, I will not receive any further consideration.

 Yes
 No


6.
I understand I should not simply list projects on which I worked or describe my experience in terms of accomplishments or achievements. My resume must describe, in my own words, the specific duties I perform that pertain to the requirements for this position. If my resume doesn't clearly describe the duties I perform that demonstrate the required Specialized Experience, I will lose consideration for this position. Information not specifically stated in my resume cannot be assumed, even if I hold (or held) a position in this series. The experience I claim is subject to verification by the selecting official.
 Yes
 No


7.
I understand that selections from this Direct Hire announcement will result in a new federal appointment even if I already hold a federal position.

 Yes
 No


8.
I understand I may be required to serve a probationary period. Successful performance of work in this position and adherence to conditions of this position will be assessed during the 1-year probationary period that may be served by new appointees (e.g., new to SSA and/or new to this series).

 Yes
 No


Your resume must include: (1) your name and contact information, (2) employer name and position held, (3) full start and stop dates (month/day/year) for each position, (4) full-time or part-time hours worked per week, (5) your grade and pay scale (for federal positions) and (6) a clear description of the duties you perform that relate to the experience required for this position. If you no longer hold a position, it must show an ending date. If your resume doesn't clearly show this information, you will be found ineligible.


You may update your resume at any time during the announcement open period by returning to your USAJOBS account. There you will find a record of your application, the application status and an option to Edit My Application. Once you've edited your resume to include all the required information and a clear description of the duties you perform that meet the requirements of the Specialized Experience statement, you can save the edited resume to your USAJobs Account and then upload it to this vacancy announcement. This option will no longer be available once the announcement has closed.


To verify the status of your application both during and after the announcement open period, log into your USAJOBS account. On the Home page, scroll down and locate your job application. Once the job has been located, click the "Track this application" link on the right under the application date. The page will refresh to display the Agency's Application Information page where you can scroll down and review any notifications the agency has sent you. The Application Status will appear along with the date your application was last updated. For information on what each Application Status means, visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/application/status/.


Complete this application by uploading your supporting documents and submitting your responses to this questionnaire - see HOW TO APPLY for specific instructions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙