Position Title
LABORER
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
JRM-25-556 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 22, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
I am willing and able to acquire professional job-related certifications with the time frame specified in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


6.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 70 pounds.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience, education, and/or training to qualify for the NAF Laborer position.  Failure to meet the basic requirement(s) and/or specialized experience; failure to respond to the question(s); and/or failure to provide required documentation will result in an ineligible rating.  Please ensure your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below and required documentation uploaded at the time of submission of application/resume packet for this position.



1.
Do you have experience, education, and/or training that provide you the knowledge and ability to perform general laboring tasks, such as operating power equipment (mowers, blowers), using hand tools (shovels, rakes), and maintaining grounds and facilities?  (Resume provided must reflect experience, must provide official transcripts and/or provide proof of training)
 Experience that has provided you with the knowledge and ability to perform general laboring tasks, such as operating power equipment (mowers, blowers), using hand tools (shovels, rakes), and maintaining grounds and facilities (Resume provided must reflect experience )
 Education that has provided you with the knowledge and ability to perform general laboring tasks, such as operating power equipment (mowers, blowers), using hand tools (shovels, rakes), and maintaining grounds and facilities (Must provide official transcripts)
 Training that has provided you with the knowledge and ability to perform general laboring tasks, such as operating power equipment (mowers, blowers), using hand tools (shovels, rakes), and maintaining grounds and facilities (Must provide proof of training)
 None of the statements apply to me


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your work experience performing maintenance or repairs on equipment such as mowers, power tools, or vehicles. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has over 5 years of full time work experience performing maintenance or repairs on equipment such as mowers, power tools, or vehicles. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 3 to 5 years of full time work experience performing maintenance or repairs on equipment such as mowers, power tools, or vehicles. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 Has 1 to 3 years of full time work experience performing maintenance or repairs on equipment such as mowers, power tools, or vehicles. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of these statements apply to me.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience using instructions to complete a work assignment. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I primarily work by following direct, step-by-step verbal commands from a supervisor for each task. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I can follow multi-step written instructions or checklists to complete a routine task from start to finish. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I have experience using simple drawings, plans, or diagrams to independently complete a project, such as assembling new equipment from a manufacturer's diagram or arranging a recreation space based on a layout plan. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 I have experience completing work based on general policies or broad objectives, where I had to use my own judgment to determine the necessary steps and methods to achieve the final goal without a specific drawing or checklist. (Resume provided must reflect experience)
 None of the statements apply to me.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙