Position Title
Occupational Therapist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12889542-26-VE Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 26, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest as a Occupational Therapist with Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Service with the Veterans Health Administration.  Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.

Note: Education must be verified by uploading copies of unofficial college transcripts with your resume. Experience will be verified by applicant's completing the duty section under each job history section in the resume.  Failure to upload your transcripts and/or adequately document your job experience and/or knowledge, skills, and abilities may result in disqualification of your application materials for this position.  Please read the job announcement carefully to ensure all pertinent data in included in your resume.



Basic Requirements:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Education and/or Experience:

Do you meet at least one of the following education/experience requirements listed below:
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
           OR
Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
           OR
Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.

NOTE: Individuals must be a graduate of a degree program in occupational therapy approved by the ACOTE or predecessor organizations. This is inclusive of an internship (supervised fieldwork experience required by the educational institution). ACOTE is the only accreditation agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. Degree programs may be verified by contacting the American Occupational Therapy Association website or at their office address: American Occupational Therapy Association, P.O. Box 31220, Bethesda, MD 20824-1220.
 Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) years of experience as an occupational therapist; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that the Accreditation Council for Occupational Therapy Education (ACOTE) would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
 Bachelor's degree in occupational therapy and two (2) full years of graduate education in a related field; NOTE: The baccalaureate degree must be from an approved program prior to the AOTA January 1, 2005 decision that ACOTE would only accredit master or doctoral degree programs in occupational therapy.
 Master's Degree or higher in occupational therapy.
 No, I do not meet the Basic Educational Requirements or I have chosen not to submit a legible copy of my transcripts.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Certification: Candidates must possess a current NBCOT certification as an OT.

Do you meet the certification requirement listed above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess a full, current, and unrestricted state license to practice occupational therapy in a State, Territory, a Commonwealth of the United States (i.e., Puerto Rico), or in the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


Grade Determinations:


5.
GS-11 Grade Determinations:
Education, Experience, or Licensure: 
Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled;
          OR
Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field;
         OR
Doctorate in occupational therapy.

Do you meet any of the above GS-11 Grade Determination Requirements?
 Yes, I have completed one year of experience equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.
 Yes, I have three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a degree in occupational therapy or a directly related field.
 Yes, I have a doctorate in occupational therapy.
 No, I do not meet the education or experience listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
GS 11 Knowledge Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the education/experience, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of occupational therapy practice.
Ability to administer/interpret evaluation findings to develop and coordinate intervention plans, including goals and methods of treatment.
Ability to implement intervention plans directly or in collaboration with others.
Skill in monitoring an individual's response to interventions and modify treatment plans and reevaluating as indicated.
Ability to communicate and or collaborate with patients, family members, caregivers, interdisciplinary professionals and/or other individuals verbally and in writing.
Knowledge of health and safety regulations to minimize risk in the provision of patient care and the environment of care.
Knowledge of applicable regulations governing documentation, reimbursement and workload entry in accordance with established professional practice.
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-12 Grade Determination: 
Education, Experience, and Licensure:  Completion of one year of experience equivalent to at the GS-11 grade level and directly related to the position being filled.


Do you meet the experience or education requirement listed above?
 Yes
 No


8.
GS 12 Knowledge Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the education/experience, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of occupational therapy principles and techniques consistent with current clinical standards based on OT theory and evidence based practice.  Knowledge is inclusive of physical, occupational, cognitive, and psychosocial functional deficits.
Ability to collaborate and communicate orally and in writing with all internal and external stakeholders.
Ability to use critical analysis, clinical reasoning, and creativity to independently solve complex problems related to adapting and modifying assessments, treatment plans, activities and procedures to meet the needs of patients.
Skill in procuring, fabricating, adjusting, adapting, and modifying orthoses, splints, and adaptive equipment for activities of daily living (inclusive of durable medical equipment).
Ability to conduct OT related in-service and clinical training.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
 
Additional Application Information:
A copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) and/or an appropriate course listing with your application is needed regarding the position.
 
If you are basing your qualifications on education (or combination of education and experience) please submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) and/or an appropriate course listing with your application.
DD-214 (if applicable)
SF 50 for current federal employees (latest /current SF 50 that shows your grade, step and salary. (Do not provide an SF 50 Award; as it will not reflect your grade, step and salary)
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙