Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
OS-MDA-26-12839734-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 3, 2025 to Wednesday, December 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen Outs
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, select the letter that best describes your level of experience. Applicants are required to meet 2 of 4 statements in order to be qualified.
 I have one year specialized experience to the next lower broadband or NH-03/GS-13 or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) which includes the following: Experience in program management, systems engineering, or a related field involving the integration, testing, or deployment of complex systems. This includes experience managing schedules, resolving technical issues, coordinating with diverse stakeholders, and implementing changes necessary for effective project execution. Communication skills (oral and written) to research, plan, coordinate and brief actions in support of leadership's goals, objectives and vision. Management principles to work with executive staffs, joint staffs, commands, agencies and services. Experience with acquisition of complex weapons systems and equipment or closely related systems and equipment development, procurement, and life-cycle management leadership to develop and implement successful integrated BMDS acquisition and operational policies, plans and assessments. Experience must be reflected in your resume.
 My experience does not meet requirements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙