Position Title
Chief Information Officer (Director, Information Technology Management)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
26-CRM-JL-032 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a current or former political appointee?

If you are currently, or have been within the last five (5) years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or Non-Career SES employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the HR office.

Please note your current or former political appointment on your resume and attach a corresponding Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) documenting your appointment.

This does not preclude you from being considered for this position. However, there is an additional requirement for the Office of Personnel Management to review your application package if selected.

 Yes
 No


4.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you the spouse of a deployed, disabled, or deceased member of the military?
Federal agencies can use the military spouse non-competitive hiring process to fill positions on either a temporary or permanent basis.

You may be eligible if you are:
A spouse of an active duty member of the armed forces. OR
A spouse of a service member who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury. OR
A spouse of a service member killed while on active duty.
You are no longer eligible if you remarry. You must meet certain criteria for each of these eligibility categories. Your eligibility does not entitle you to a job within the Federal Government. You must still apply and meet qualification standards and additional requirements, such as a background investigation. Learn more about the specific criteria for military spouses...
To verify your eligibility for option 1: You must submit a copy of the PCS (permanent change of station) orders indicating you are authorized to relocate on those orders.
To verify your eligibility for options 2 and 3: You must submit the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc..
 Yes
 No


6.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.

Do you have an intellectual, psychiatric or severe physical disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?

For more information, please review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.
 Yes
 No


7.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To qualify for the GS-15 level, applicants must have one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-14 grade level. Examples of specialized experience include: directing enterprise-scale IT programs involving the planning, development, integration, and modernization of major systems or services across a dispersed workforce; leading enterprise architecture, systems engineering or development, cybersecurity, or infrastructure at a strategic level; managing major IT acquisitions such as negotiating complex technical requirements and ensuring performance and deliverables; and driving policy, governance, and modernization decisions that shape organizational-wide technology outcomes.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements described above?
 Yes; I meet the specialized experience requirements described above.
 No; I do not meet the specialized experience requirements described above.


2.
To qualify for this position, applicants must demonstrate an advanced level of proficiency in the following competencies. Advanced proficiency is defined as applying the competency in considerably difficult situations and generally requires little to no guidance.
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change.
Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems.
Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.
 I possess advanced proficiency in all of the competencies described above and it is evidenced in my resume.
 I do not possess advanced proficiency in all of the competencies listed above.


3.
To qualify for this position, applicants must demonstrate an expert level of proficiency in the following competencies. Expert proficiency is defined as applying the competency is exceptionally difficult situations and serving as a key resources and advising others.
Problem Solving: Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Technical Competence: Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.
 I posses expert level proficiency in all the competencies listed above and this is evidenced in my resume.
 I do not possess expert level proficiency in all competencies listed above.


You are strongly encouraged to convert your resume to an Adobe PDF file prior to submitting your application, especially if you are submitting using a Mac system. Resumes not pre-converted to a PDF file will undergo conversion by the system. This conversion process may cause some formatting changes to your resume, including line and page break errors. To ensure your submitted resume does not display with formatting issues, please submit your resume as a PDF. This error does not affect USAjobs resumes.


4.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify or inflate your responses may be grounds for not referring you. Please take this opportunity to review your rating to ensure the accuracy of your answers and that they are supported by your resume. Failure to agree to this statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes; I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No; I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙