Position Title
IT Specialist (SysAnalysis)
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12950751-26-KD Opens in new window
Open Period
May 05, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-13 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-12 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include: (1) Conducting Systems Analysis: Performing systems analysis for IT projects, including requirements gathering, process modeling, workflow analysis, and recommending IT solutions to improve efficiency and effectiveness of IT operations. (2) Applying System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) Methodologies: Participating in multiple phases of the SDLC (such as analysis, design, testing, and implementation) for IT systems, ensuring deliverables meet requirements and quality standards, and applying relevant methodologies(e.g., Agile, DevOps) and documentation practices. (3) Technical Communication and Documentation: Preparing clear and concise technical reports, system specifications, and user documentation; communicating analysis results and recommendations to stakeholders and team members; and facilitating collaboration within and across teams. AND (4) Analyzing and Resolving IT System Issues: Identifying, analyzing, and resolving routine and moderately complex IT system issues using troubleshooting techniques, and collaborating with others to restore system functionality.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


Assessment 2
1.
GG-13 Competencies
Select the one statement below that best describes your Information Technology (IT) related experience that meets the following basic requirements: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I have IT-related experience that demonstrates each of the four competencies: (1) Attention to Detail; (2) Customer Service; (3) Oral Communication; and (4) Problem Solving.
 I do not have IT-related experience as stated above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙