Position Title
Supervisory Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
301-26-HC-12983787-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a Veterans Benefits Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the VBA?
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements (unless if you are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A).


2.
Do you have at least one year (52 weeks) of time-in-grade in a position at the GS-12 grade level or higher? Please select the response that most accurately describes you. (Submitted documentation must support your response).
 Yes, I have at least one year time-in-grade at the GS-12 grade level, or higher and I will submit my most recent appointment, promotion, or within grade increase SF-50 (not an award or general adjustment SF-50).
 I am currently a GS-13 or higher grade.
 I am eligible for a Schedule A Appointment and wish to bypass time-in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


This position requires a master's degree in either rehabilitation counseling or a related field with an emphasis in vocational rehabilitation counseling. Your degree program must have included a supervised internship in vocational rehabilitation counseling. For programs without the required internship, you may substitute one year of post-degree work delivering vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs (other than those in correctional facilities).


3.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:
 I have a master’s degree in vocational rehabilitation counseling that included an internship.
 I have a master’s degree in vocational rehabilitation counseling that did not include an internship, but I have one year of post-degree work experience delivering vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs (other than those in correctional facilities).
 I have a related master’s degree with an emphasis in vocational rehabilitation counseling that included a vocational rehabilitation counseling internship.
 I have a related master’s degree with an emphasis in vocational rehabilitation counseling that did not include an internship, but I have one year of post-degree work experience delivering vocational rehabilitation services to adults with disabilities in rehabilitation programs (other than those in correctional facilities).
 I do not have a degree or experience as listed above.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for the grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
To qualify at the GS-13 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as:
Working with employment and vocational rehabilitation programs
Possessing knowledge and expertise in the procedures for vocational and rehabilitation law
Administering counsel in the areas of career development, job placement, psychology, rehabilitation and counseling
Provide individual and group training, orientation, consultation and guidance within specialization of rehabilitation counseling practice to develop, improve and maintain programming.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-12 or higher in the Federal Service.
 My experience is not described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


If you are a VBA employee and currently hold the grade level of this vacancy (or higher) AND the promotion potential of this position does not exceed the promotion potential of your current position, you may request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into this position. You MUST submit your most recent (non-award) SF-50 and the SF-50 placing you into your current position to receive consideration.


6.
Do you wish to request a non-competitive reassignment or change-to-lower grade into the advertised position and grade?
 Yes, I wish to be considered for a non-competitive change-to-lower grade or reassignment as explained above.
 No, I am applying to this job announcement as a promotion opportunity


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙