Position Title
Supervisory Occupational Health Analyst (Health and Medical Readiness Division Director)
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
IMP-12873869-26-OHS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters in the Competitive Service (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard)? who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with lesser promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with the Department of Homeland Security Headquarters (this does not include the following: CISA, TSA, CBP, USCIS, ICE, FEMA, U.S. Secret Service, or U.S. Coast Guard) who has held or currently holds, a permanent competitive service position in the federal government with equal or higher promotion potential as this position?

To verify your eligibility as a current DHS Headquarters employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be removed from consideration.


1.
INDIVIDUAL OCCUPATIONAL REQUIREMENT 
This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement that must be met prior to meeting the specialized experience. To qualify you must have a bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree: major study in an academic field related to the medical field, health sciences or allied sciences appropriate to the work of the position. This degree must be from an educational program from an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.

NOTE: To receive consideration for this position, you must submit a copy of your transcripts for review. Your supporting documents must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 I meet the basic requirements identified above.
 I do not meet the basic requirements identified above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE
To qualify for the GS-15 level, you must possess at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent in the level of difficulty and responsibility to that of the next lower grade level (GS-14) in Federal Service or equivalent private/public sector experience. For this position, specialized experience is defined as the following:
Provide subject matter expertise on matters involving occupational medicine and medical readiness;
Conduct quality control to ensure policies and protocols used by the Department meet occupational health standards of practice;
Make critical decisions or recommendations that significantly change, interpret, or develop major aspects of a program, based on knowledge of public health sciences (including behavioral and social sciences, biostatistics, epidemiology, environmental and preventative health, and prevention of chronic and infectious diseases);
Develop standardized health and medical readiness guidelines for the Department; AND
Supervise or lead a clinical team.
NOTE: Your resume must explicitly indicate how you meet this requirement, otherwise you will be found ineligible.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent in the level of difficulty and responsibility to that of the next lower grade level (GS-14) in Federal Service or equivalent private/public sector experience performing the duties mentioned above.
 My experience is not reflected above.


3.
SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR
Do you possess current active licensure to practice clinically? 

NOTE: You must submit a copy of your active license(s) in medicine, nursing, or other kindred fields, otherwise you will be ruled ineligible.
 Yes, I have current active licensure, in one of the above-mentioned fields, to practice clinically.
 No, I do not have current active licensure, in one of the above-mentioned fields, to practice clinically.


4.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration of this position.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙