Position Title
Powered Support Systems Repairer
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
FEMA-KR-12969236-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jun 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee who is considered displaced or surplus (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force) from one of the following components under the Department of Homeland Security?
CBP:  Customs and Border Protection
FEMA:  Federal Emergency Management Agency
FLETC:  Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
ICE:  Immigration and Customs Enforcement
S&T:  Science and Technology Directorate
USCG:  United States Coast Guard
USCIS:  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
USSS:  United States Secret Service
DHS HQ:  DHS Headquarters
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, your most recent performance rating, and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)

Are you a current or former federal employee considered surplus/displaced (you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction in Force) from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
8
10


2.
How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 USAJOBS
 FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 FEMA.gov Careers Website
 FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 College/University/Alumni Organization
 FEMA Employee Referral
 Other


3.
Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.


4.
Are you a current FEMA employee?
 I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 I'm not a current FEMA Employee


5.
Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


6.
Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)


7.
Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 No
 Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.


8.
Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 Yes
 No, but I have an exemption
 I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 Not Applicable


2.
All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 Yes
 No


3.
I understand I am subject to completion of a pre-employment drug test (including marijuana). A tentative offer of employment will be rescinded if you fail to report to the drug test appointment or fail the test. You will be subject to random testing.
 Yes
 No


4.
In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a Top-Secret Investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing and able to complete a pre-employment physical prior to being placed into the position?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses to the questions below will be used in the evaluation of your qualifications for this position. Your resume and application materials must support the level of experience and/or education you claim in this questionnaire. If after a complete review of your application package, a determination is made that you overstated your qualifications, you may be rated ineligible for this position.


1.
Do you have the ability to perform the work of a Powered Support Systems Repairer without more than normal supervision?
 I have little to no experience or training in performing the work of a Powered Support Systems Repairer.
 I have had training in performing the work of a Powered Support Systems Repairer but have not performed it on the job.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a Powered Support Systems Repairer under close supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a Powered Support Systems Repairer under normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a Powered Support Systems Repairer on my own without supervision.


2.
Please indicate where and when you acquired the ability to perform the work associated with each of the Wage Grade Job Elements listed in the "How You Will Be Evaluated" section of this Job Opportunity Announcement. Include in your response: (1) the wage grade job element; (2) the place of employment; and (3) the specific dates of employment the ability was gained in MM/DD/YYYY-MM/DD/YYYY format. Your response must be supported by your resume.

Example: Use of Measuring Instruments; ABC Company; 10/01/2016-05/15/2018



3.
Select the best statement that describes your experience overhauling large diesel engines up to 4,300 hp with assistance?
 I have no education, training, or experience overhauling large diesel engines up to 4,300 hp with assistance.
 I have had education, training, or experience overhauling large diesel engines up to 4,300 hp with assistance but have not performed it on the job.
 I have overhauled large diesel engines up to 4,300 hp with assistance and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have overhauled large diesel engines up to 4,300 hp without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in overhauling large diesel engines up to 4,300 hp.


4.
Select the best response that describes your experience removing, replacing and maintaining cylinder heads, pistons or liners, fuel pumps and main engine bearings.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining and replacing cylinder heads, pistons or liners, fuel pumps and main engine bearings.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining and replacing cylinder heads, pistons or liners, fuel pumps and main engine bearings but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained and replaced cylinder heads, pistons or liners, fuel pumps and main engine bearings and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained and replaced cylinder heads, pistons or liners, fuel pumps and main engine bearings without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining and replacing cylinder heads, pistons or liners, fuel pumps and main engine bearings.


5.
Select the best response that describes your experience testing, adjusting, repairing and inspecting fuel injectors and fuel pumps.
 have no education, training, or experience testing, adjusting, repairing and inspecting fuel injectors and fuel pumps.
 I have had education, training, or experience testing, adjusting, repairing and inspecting fuel injectors and fuel pumps but have not performed it on the job.
 I have tested, adjusted, repaired and inspected fuel injectors and fuel pumps and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have tested, adjusted, repaired and inspected fuel injectors and fuel pumps without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others testing, adjusting, repairing and inspecting fuel injectors and fuel pumps.


6.
Select the best response that describes your experience inspecting crankshafts and camshafts.
 I have no education, training, or experience inspecting crankshafts and camshafts.
 I have had education, training, or experience inspecting crankshafts and camshafts but have not performed it on the job.
 I have inspected crankshafts and camshafts and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have inspected crankshafts and camshafts without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in inspecting crankshafts and camshafts


7.
Select the best response that describes your experience maintaining hydraulic and/or pneumatic systems.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining hydraulic and/or pneumatic systems.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining hydraulic and/or pneumatic systems but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained hydraulic and/or pneumatic systems and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained hydraulic and/or pneumatic systems without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining hydraulic and/or pneumatic systems


8.
Select the best statement that describes your experience taking and interpreting equipment performance readings.
 I have no education, training, or experience taking and interpreting equipment performance readings.
 I have had education, training, or experience taking and interpreting equipment performance readings but have not performed it on the job.
 I have taken and interpreted equipment performance readings and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have taken and interpreted equipment performance readings without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in taking and interpreting equipment performance readings.


9.
Select the best response that describes your experience maintaining or repairing diesel and/or gasoline engines.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing diesel and/or gasoline engines.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing diesel and/or gasoline engines but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained or repaired diesel and/or gasoline engines and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained or repaired diesel and/or gasoline engines without review by a supervisor or senior employe.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining or repairing diesel and/or gasoline engines.


10.
Select the best response that describes your experience maintaining or repairing diesel combustion air intake systems, combustion exhaust systems and/or turbo chargers.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing diesel combustion air intake systems, combustion exhaust systems and/or turbo chargers.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing diesel combustion air intake systems, combustion exhaust systems and/or turbo chargers but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained or repaired diesel combustion air intake systems, combustion exhaust systems and/or turbo chargers and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained or repaired diesel combustion air intake systems, combustion exhaust systems and/or turbo chargers without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining or repairing diesel combustion air intake systems, combustion exhaust systems and/or turbo chargers.


11.
Select the best response that describes your experience maintaining or repairing injectors.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing injectors.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing injectors but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained or repaired injectors and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained or repaired injectors without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining or repairing injectors.


12.
Select the best response that describes your experience maintaining or repairing Governors.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing Governors.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining or repairing Governors but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained or repaired Governors and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained or repaired Governors without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining or repairing Governors.


13.
Select the best response that best describes your experience interpreting blueprints, specifications, or manufacturers' literature when maintaining or repairing diesel engines, gasoline engines, systems or parts.
 I have no education, training, or experience interpreting blueprints, specifications, or manufacturers' literature when maintaining or repairing diesel engines, gasoline engines, systems or parts.
 I have had education, training, or experience interpreting blueprints, specifications, or manufacturers' literature when maintaining or repairing diesel engines, gasoline engines, systems or parts but have not performed it on the job.
 I have interpreted blueprints, specifications, or manufacturers' literature when maintaining or repairing diesel engines, gasoline engines, systems or parts and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have interpreted blueprints, specifications, or manufacturers' literature when maintaining or repairing diesel engines, gasoline engines, systems or parts without review by a supervisor or senior employee. I have operated vehicles 32,000 pounds or truck trailers with a semi-trailer that require a CDL license without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in interpreting blueprints, specifications, or manufacturers' literature when maintaining or repairing diesel engines, gasoline engines, systems or parts.


14.
Select the best response that best describes your experience using or operating torque wrenches, fuel injection timing tools, impact drivers, and/or tap and dies.
 I have no education, training, or experience using or operating torque wrenches, fuel injection timing tools, impact drivers, and/or tap and dies.
 I have had education, training, or experience using or operating torque wrenches, fuel injection timing tools, impact drivers, and/or tap and dies but have not performed it on the job.
 I have used or operated torque wrenches, fuel injection timing tools, impact drivers, and/or tap and dies and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have used or operated torque wrenches, fuel injection timing tools, impact drivers, and/or tap and dies without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in using or operating torque wrenches, fuel injection timing tools, impact drivers, and/or tap and dies.


15.
Select the best response that best describes your experience using or operating hydraulic pullers and/or hydraulic presses.
 I have no education, training, or experience using or operating hydraulic pullers and/or hydraulic presses.
 I have had education, training, or experience using or operating hydraulic pullers and/or hydraulic presses but have not performed it on the job.
 I have used or operated hydraulic pullers and/or hydraulic presses and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have used or operated hydraulic pullers and/or hydraulic presses without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in using or operating hydraulic pullers and/or hydraulic presses.


16.
Select the best response that best describes your experience using or operating overhead hoists.
 I have no education, training, or experience using or operating overhead hoists.
 I have had education, training, or experience using or operating overhead hoists but have not performed it on the job.
 I have used or operated overhead hoists and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have used or operated overhead hoists without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in using or operating overhead hoists.


17.
Select the best response that best describes your experience maintaining large industrial diesel fueled systems.
 I have no education, training, or experience maintaining large industrial diesel fueled systems.
 I have had education, training, or experience maintaining large industrial diesel fueled systems but have not performed it on the job.
 I have maintained large industrial diesel fueled systems and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have maintained large industrial diesel fueled systems without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in maintaining large industrial diesel fueled systems.


18.
Select the best response that best describes your experience using various instruments (e.g., digital Volt/Ohm meters, micrometers, depth gauges, digital Calipers, and/or dial indicators) to troubleshoot engines and systems.
 I have no education, training, or experience using various instruments (e.g., digital Volt/Ohm meters, micrometers, depth gauges, digital Calipers, and/or dial indicators) to troubleshoot engines and systems.
 I have had education, training, or experience using various instruments (e.g., digital Volt/Ohm meters, micrometers, depth gauges, digital Calipers, and/or dial indicators) to troubleshoot engines and systems but have not performed it on the job.
 I have used various instruments (e.g., digital Volt/Ohm meters, micrometers, depth gauges, digital Calipers, and/or dial indicators) to troubleshoot engines and systems and was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have used various instruments (e.g., digital Volt/Ohm meters, micrometers, depth gauges, digital Calipers, and/or dial indicators) to troubleshoot engines and systems without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am a subject matter expert and have consulted others in using various instruments (e.g., digital Volt/Ohm meters, micrometers, depth gauges, digital Calipers, and/or dial indicators) to troubleshoot engines and systems.


19.
Please take this opportunity to review your question responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you understand this statement, have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙