Position Title
Statistician
Agency
Defense Contract Audit Agency
Announcement Number
DCAA-26-HQ-13002946 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following section is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government or Status for referral consideration. Please indicate by your responses all categories of eligibilities for which you would like to be considered. You will only be considered under eligibilities that you select. If you are not able to select at least one of the eligibilities below, you are not eligible to be considered for this position.

NOTE: You must submit the required documentation to verify EACH eligibility you select. Failure to provide the required documents will render you not eligible for consideration.

See instructions under the "How to Apply" tab for submitting documentation.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Madison, AL
 B. Chandler, AZ
 C. Melbourne, FL
 D. Smyrna, GA
 E. Indianapolis, IN
 F. Lowell, MA
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. Dayton, OH
 I. Irving, TX
 J. Fort Belvoir, VA


2.
Have you previously retired from the Federal government and receive an annuity from the Office of Personnel Management? (NOTE: If you answered yes to this question, attach a copy of your retirement Standard Form 50 to your application.)?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Current or Former Political Appointee within the last 5 years? (NOTE: Agencies must request OPM approval to appoint the following current or former (within five-years) Executive Branch political appointees to permanent competitive service, non-political excepted service, or career SES positions: https://www.opm.gov/FAQs/QA.aspx?fid=023f2059-dff7-4307-89b4-c553c218af1d&pid=08248d29-d26e-44b6-9988-57655358d509)
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you previously worked for the Federal government and received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) within the last 5 years?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please accurately identify your level of training or experience when completing this questionnaire. Your responses will be evaluated and verified based on your submitted resume. Ensure that your resume accurately describes the level of education and/or experience claimed in the assessment questionnaire. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. By continuing in the application process, I acknowledge that my self-assessment questionnaire score may be reduced, and I may lose consideration for this position if the work experience described in my resume does not support my responses to the assessment questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that corresponds to the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess and demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Statistician at the GS-14 grade level. Select only one letter for each item.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service, or comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the GS-13 if outside the Federal service. Specialized experience is:conducting studies requiring in-depth analysis of statistical program requirements; OR, providing administrative and technical coordination of a statistical operation associated with data collection/processing activities; OR, utilizing various software and computer programs to perform statistical data analyses and report findings.
 I do not meet any of the above requirements.


2.
To qualify for this position you must meet one of the basic requirements described below. (You MUST submit copies of your proof of education unless you meet one of the exceptions as described in the vacancy announcement link; failure to submit required documents by the close of the announcement may result in an Ineligible rating.)
 Degree: that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.
 Combination of education and experience -- courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.
 I do not meet either of the above requirement options.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.)? Do you understand that the information provided may be investigated? Do you understand that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in or with your application may be grounds for not hiring you or for firing you after you begin work? Do you also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙