Position Title
Supply Technician (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHQ-26-13045165-DE-KAL Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 21, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


The current position I am applying to is a temporary seasonal appointment with less than 1040 hours. I am willing to accept this type of position. I understand that responding "No" to the item below will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions.

Field Unit Local Hiring for St. John, USVI is defined as 75 miles from Virgin Islands National Park 1300 Cruz Bay Creek St. John, VI 00830

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised? If your select yes as your response below, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.
 Yes
 No


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


3.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.


Assessment 1
IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify, you must document your course work and/or degree completed in your resume or other application materials you submit. You must submit a copy of your transcripts, or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course: the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information as described previously, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Supply Technician, GS-2005-05


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for this Supply Technician, GS-2005-05. Park. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND TO BE NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 I possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). This experience includes activities such as: use of a computerized property management and control system, applied in at least one of the following ways: receiving, accounting for, and/or disposing of property; reviewing and correcting physical inventory data; performing and reporting on a periodic physical inventory; maintaining a warehouse and supply database; assisting with property-related internal controls. You must include hours worked per week.
 I have successfully completed at least four years of post high school education at an accredited business, secretarial, technical school, junior college, or college/university. If using education to qualify, you must provide transcripts. If selected, a copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty.
 I possess a combination of education and experience which qualifies me for this position. NOTE: The computed percentage of the requirements must be at least 100% of the total requirement. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed post high school semester hours (or equivalent) by 18. Please note: Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) may be used in this calculation. Add the two percentages. You must provide a copy of your transcripts. If selected, a copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty.
 I do not meet any of the qualification requirements as listed above.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙