Position Title
MOBILE EQUIPMENT DRIVER EXAMINER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12875011-AF-26-043 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E1 to E6 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the 111th ATKW
 AOC 2: NG Employees in the 111th Attack Wing (This includes 270 EIS, 201 RHS Det 1, PA ANG HQ Det 2)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes Traditional Airmen, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience or training to operate and maintain the maintenance of self-propelled transportation and other mobile equipment (except aircraft) used to move materials or passengers? Do you have experience following directions and to safely operate the type of equipment required to accomplish the duties of the position?

 Yes.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have experience using a large volume of regulations, manuals, guides and special test equipment to determine applicant ability in emergency and visual judgment, eye-hand coordination, depth perception, hearing, field of perception, hearing, field of vision, reaction time etc.? Do you have experience conducting a variety of special or one-time tests in accordance with new or modified requirements, which involve special training, interpretation of new or modified instructions, and decisions, which affect driver/operator or equipment safety and operation? Do you have experience using discretion and judgment in giving personnel instructions prior to and during examination?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone in this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙