Position Title
Histopathology Technician (Lead)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12970865-26-TH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in our Histopathology Technician (Lead) position.  Be sure to read and understand the 'Area of Consideration' and the 'Qualifications' for this position before submitting your application. If you have questions, please email me at Teresa.hammond@va.gov





Grandfathering Provision. All Histopathology Technicians employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
(1) Such employees in an occupation that does not require a licensure/certification/registration, may be reassigned, promoted, or demoted within the occupation.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) If an employee who was retained (grandfathered) under this provision leaves that occupation, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. Histopathology Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5.a.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Requirements:
Experience and Education
(1)Experience. One year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work such as but not limited to a medical or clinical laboratory assistant (or technician) or health technician.
OR,
(2)Education
(a)Four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation such as biological science or chemistry; or
(b)Successful completion of two academic years of study above high school that included at least 24 semester hours in Chemistry and/or in appropriate fields of biological science and successful completion of a 12-month program of education and training in histopathology or cytotechnology.
OR,
(3)Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Examples are listed below:
(a)Six months of experience in the health care field and two years of education above high school that included at least six semester hours in health care related courses such as biological science, surgical technician courses or other courses related to the position; or an associate's degree in a health care related field.
(b)Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or histopathology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces.
 Yes, I have one year of experience in a health care field that demonstrates the ability to perform the work or provides an understanding of the work
 Yes, I have (a) Four academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation such as biological science or chemistry; or (b)Successful completion of two academic years of study above high school that included at least 24 semester hours in Chemistry and/or in appropriate fields of biological science and successful completion of a 12-month program of education and training in histopathology or cytotechnology. NOTE: Transcripts must be provided at time of application
 Yes, I have Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. Note: Transcripts must be provided at time of application .
 No, I do not have Experience, Education or a Combination of experience and education as listed above, therefore, I am not qualified


GRADE REQUIREMENTS.
In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Histopathology Technician, GS-8 (Lead)
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
(a) Skill in applying professional, complex anatomic pathology principles, practices, concepts, and theories in performing new or difficult specialized testing methods or techniques.
(b) Ability to provide technical oversight of laboratory quality control and assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement exhibiting competence in managing reagent and supply inventories and document control systems.
(c) Ability to validate methodologies, operate anatomic pathology laboratory equipment and perform complex instrument troubleshooting.
(d) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and evaluate laboratory results and resolve problems.  

Do you have the experience as listed above?

Assignment. Lead Histopathology technicians at this level perform duties which consist of a significant scope, complexity and administrative independence. The Lead provides direction to the daily operations and assumes responsibility for integrating and monitoring the standard adherence to methods and protocols to maintain continuous work flow and quality within the unit. Duties include: prepare, direct, and approve work schedules and assign tasks for timely completion of duties; ensure resources are in optimal working condition and address workflow needs; calibrate, operate, and maintain instruments and equipment used in surgical pathology, immunohistochemistry, and special stains; provides guidance and instruction to Histopathology Technicians on a broad range of specific tasks and job techniques; monitors work in progress often performing spot checks to ensure protocols are being followed; reviews completed work to ensure guidelines are met regarding work sequences, procedures, and methods; provides on-the-job training to new employees; provides cross-training to staff; provides input to supervisor on performance and training needs of employees; adjusts work assignments due to absences or changes in priorities; resolves simple informal complaints of employees and patients, referring the more difficult problems to the supervisor; recommends approval and/or disapproval of leave requests. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher- level duties must consist of significant scope, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.
 Yes
 No


Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
(a) Ability to use independent judgment and apply comprehensive technical histopathology knowledge to solve complex problems concerning a broad range of tests, procedures, and protocols.
(b) Ability to perform procedural technical review and provide written and practical application training and instructions to laboratory personnel in all areas of histology.
(c) Ability to manage staffing requirements, plan and organize workload and priorities, and coordinate work in order to complete duties in an accurate and timely manner. This includes the ability to follow-up on pending issues and demonstrating an understanding of the impact of incomplete work.
(d) Comprehensive knowledge of regulatory, licensing, and accrediting agency requirements that govern laboratory operations in order to insure that work practices, documentation, and reporting are consistent with all governing standards and regulations.
(e) Skill in communicating with individuals in order to obtain the desired effect, provide technical guidance and ensure compliance with established policies and regulations.

Do you have all the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities listed above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙