Position Title
Supervisory Human Resources Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
27-13080016-WE-NL-ICTAP
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 10, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: • you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, • you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, • your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No
3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Which of the following responses BEST represents your performance rating?
 I received the highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received the second highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years in a related or unrelated position.
 I do not meet any of the performance rating described above.
2.
Which of the following BEST represents your awards history? Awards include sustained superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, meritorious civilian service awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards. Letters of commendation and appreciation are NOT creditable.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I have not received any awards.
3.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis.
4.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held. (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present)
Min Quals-0201-14-NL
.
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your education qualification requirements for Supervisory Human Resources Specialist, GS-2210-14.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service to include: providing expert-level advisory services and technical oversight in areas such as staffing, classification, compensation, and personnel action processing in the federal government; leading a multidisciplinary team in the day-to-day operations of HR activities such as workload balancing, quality control, and/or performance evaluations; Interpreting and applying federal HR regulations, laws, and policies to develop guidance and/or resolve complex or controversial personnel issues; designing or assisting in the design of HR operational studies to improve efficiency, customer service, or compliance with federal policies; utilizing a wide range of HR automated tools sufficient to review and analyze data, generate management reports and/or advisories, conduct studies, and/or quality review.
 I do not possess the experience described above.
2.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.
 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.
3.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
