Position Title
FUEL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OPERATOR (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12713033-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component or a prior member eligible to obtain membership in the Texas National Guard.
 I am a civilian willing and eligible to obtain membership into the Texas National Guard.
 I am not willing and/or eligible for immediate membership into the Texas National Guard.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you currently a federal employee at another agency?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an Enlisted member within the ranks of E-1/AB through E-5/SSgt? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard within the ranks of E-1/AB through E-5/SSgt. Civilians must ensure they are eligible to join the Texas Air National Guard within the ranks of E-1/AB through E-5/SSgt.
 I am an enlisted within the ranks of E-1/AB through E-5/SSgt.
 I am a member of another branch of service or prior service member eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard within the ranks of E-1/(AB) through E-5/SSgt.
 I am a civilian eligible and willing to join the Texas Air National Guard within the ranks of E-1/AB through E-5/SSgt.
 I am not eligible and/or willing to join the Texas Air National Guard within the ranks. of E-1/AB through E-5/SSgt.


4.
Do you currently possess the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of your appointment?
AFSC: 2F0X1
 I currently possess the AFSC: 2F0X1.
 I do not possess the AFSC: 2F0X1, but I am eligible and able to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of appointment.
 I currently do not possess the AFSC: 2F0X1 military assignment and I am not eligible and/or willing to complete the AFSC qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment within 12 months of appointment.


5.
Please type your rank and Military Specialty in the space provided below. If you are a member of another branch of service, please include your branch, rank and military specialty. Prior service members should include their last rank held and military specialty. Civilians should type "N/A".



6.
Are you currently on any military orders (Title 10, ADOS, OLS, AGR, SAD)? Please type YES or NO in the space provided below. If yes, please include start and end date for your orders and submit a copy of orders with your application. Civilians should type "N/A".



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you have experience or training operating, maintaining, repairing, troubleshooting, and overhauling fuel systems and components, AND experience or training initiating and controlling the movement and storage of fuel supplies by operating high pressure systems with a series of terminals connected by cross-country pipelines or multi-fuel storage and distribution facilities connected by a network of internal pipelines?
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance; or are you eligible and willing to obtain a Secret clearance within one year of appointment?

 I have a Secret security clearance.
 I am eligible and willing to undergo a background investigation to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment.
 I am not eligible and/or willing to undergo a background investigation to obtain a Secret security clearance within one year of appointment.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


10.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙