Position Title
Supervisory Accountant
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
26-FS-12930645-MPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Hyattsville, MD
 C. Austin, TX
 D. Parkersburg, WV


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements
A. Degree: accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law. (The term "accounting" means "accounting and/or auditing" in this standard. Similarly, "accountant" should be interpreted, generally, as "accountant and/or auditor.")
OR
B. Combination of education and experience: at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:
1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law;
2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or
3. Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements. 




1.
Select the one answer that best reflects your education and/or experience as it relates to the basic requirement of this position.
 I have earned a Bachelor's degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law)
 I have at least 4 years of experience in auditing/accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that included 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses. (May include up to 6 hours of credit in business law)
 I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training. I am also a Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor which was obtained through a written examination.
 I have at least 4 years of experience in auditing/accounting, or a combination of auditing/accounting experience, college-level education, and training and have completed the requirements for a degree that included substantial work in accounting (e.g., 15 semester hours). I understand that my experience/education will be reviewed by at least 2 professional accountants to verify that (a) I have worked at the full performance level in accounting or auditing; and (b) I possess the required professional auditing/accounting knowledge, skills, and abilities.
 I do not meet any of the education and/or combination of education and experience as listed in the selections above.


2.
Specialized Experience for the GS-13: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position entails:

Leading forums, discussions, or presentations to discuss objectives, make recommendations or persuade a variety of audiences; AND
Developing, implementing, and applying regulations, policies, or guidelines for the purpose of making recommendations, proposing actions, or decisions; AND
Gathering, analyzing, and applying problem solving methods to complete projects.


3.
For the GS-13, select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question.


4.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


5.
What is the highest-level role in which you have been responsible for managing financial resources?
 Team Leader
 First line supervisory
 None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Have you ever been responsible for monitoring/evaluating other's performance?
 Yes
 No


7.
From the list below, select the responses that describe your experience in supervision and leadership.
 A. I have had direct supervisor authority.
 B. I have been a team leader, articulating goals and outcomes and motivating others to achieve them.
 C. I have worked to promote cooperation, coordination of work and process efficiencies.
 D. I have developed methods for handling potential workflow problems arising from urgent or emergency situations.
 E. None of the above


8.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience translating goals into action plans.
 I have no experience performing this task.
 I have participated in a process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 I have led a process/project to develop action items for an action plan that supported established goals for a specific program area.
 I have led a process/project for the conversion of agency goals to an action plan for a primary organizational unit or equivalent.
 I have overseen the process/project for the conversion of agency goals to action plans. I have monitored these action plans, made appropriate adjustments, and measured goal accomplishment.


9.
From the following list, please select all the supervisory/management functions you have performed:
 A. Plan, organize and assign work based on the capabilities and experience of the subordinate staff.
 B. Direct work progress and reviews/approves compliance with goals and objectives.
 C. Develop performance standards and appraises employee performance.
 D. Recommends awards and promotions.
 E. Develop and implement training plans for a component organization.
 F. Assists in the selection of employees.
 G. Resolves employee complaints and concerns.
 H. Establish program objectives and performance goals.
 I. None of the above


10.
Choose all the statements below that describe your experience with principles, practices, policies, and area(s) of responsibility to provide guidance and leadership in carrying out program strategies and ensuring that policies and plans are consistent with agency needs.
 A. I have issued technically authoritative interpretations or decisions regarding laws, regulations, and program policies relating to a program within my area of responsibility.
 B. I have developed and recommended program policies, strategies, and goals.
 C. I have set short-range objectives for the accomplishment of program work.
 D. I have set long-range plans for a program considering the possible changes in program direction and new and/or emerging laws.
 E. I have promoted program(s) and provided expert advice to senior officials.
 F. I have reviewed and made recommendations for standard operating procedures.
 G. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


11.
From the choices below, please identify those statements that describe your experience developing and/or building effective teams or working group.
 A. I have led teams/working groups and motivated others towards goal accomplishment.
 B. I have participated as a team member with some involvement in motivating others towards goal accomplishment.
 C. I have demonstrated the ability to deal effectively with pressure, while maintaining the team/work group's focus, intensity, and persistence under adversity.
 D. I have coached and mentored staff to achieve desired results.
 E. I have resolved conflicts, differences, or problems among team members.
 F. None of the above


12.
Which of the following describes your experience with Federal laws, statutes, policies, and regulations?
 I consult with subject matter experts for their interpretation of a given law, statute, policy, or regulation before making a decision.
 I interpret laws, statutes, policies, or regulations, and may consult with others before making a decision.
 I interpret laws, statutes, policies, or regulations and provide advice within my organization.
 I interpret laws, statutes, policies, or regulations and provide advice to senior executives.
 I interpret laws, statutes, policies, or regulations and may be relied upon to inform the general public.
 None of the above


13.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience gathering, compiling, and analyzing financial data.
 I have compiled, analyzed, and summarized financial and/or budgetary information related to assigned areas of the organization's financial program.
 I have translated organizational needs and objectives, by line item and object class, into budget dollars and the funding actions.
 I have considered the program goals, provisions of applicable policies, regulations, procedures, and alternative methods of obtaining and distributing funds.
 I have recommended the approval or disapproval of budget requests.
 None of the above


14.
Select the answer(s) that describes your experience identifying and analyzing problems, making logical decisions, and providing solutions.
 A. Assisted in the identification and analyzed problems and distinguished between relevant and irrelevant information to make rational decisions.
 B. Used qualitative data and analytical tools in problem solving.
 C. Assisted in the development of policies, regulations, procedures, and/or plans for meeting my organization's goals and objectives.
 D. Assisted in the preparation and presentation of analytical information to mid-level management officials within the organization. Analyses are used to explain or justify decision, conclusions, findings, and recommendations.
 E. Assisted in the development of comprehensive material for reports, briefings, or meetings of mid-level management officials on issues.
 F. None of the above


15.
From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems:
 A. Resolved problems independently.
 B. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and resolve problems.
 C. Prepared analytical documents, such as decision memos, that identified policy or process issues and offered multiple options for resolution.
 D. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other documents.
 E. None of the above


16.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience analyzing problems from available information and formulating recommendations?
 I have experience in leading teams in gathering, evaluating, and analyzing data to form sound conclusions and recommendations that are supported by facts gathered and that meet stated objectives.
 I have experience in gathering, evaluating, and analyzing data to form sound conclusions and recommendations that are supported by facts gathered and that meet stated objectives.
 I have experience in conducting research and analyzing data.
 I have experience performing routine research and analysis.
 I have no experience performing routine research and analysis.


17.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience with generally accepted accounting principles and auditing standards in a variety of accounting systems to analyze new, complicated, extensive, and/or ambiguous accounting problems and to devise appropriate resolutions?
 I have researched and resolved complex accounting and auditing problems in an automated environment by interpreting and adapting established complex accounting and/or auditing standards and guidelines.
 I have researched and recommended solutions to complex accounting problems in an automated or manual environment by recommending changes in complex accounting and/or auditing standards and guidelines based on independent research.
 I have participated with others in projects involving the researching and resolving of general accounting problems in an automated or manual accounting environment.
 I have little or no experience analyzing complex accounting problems.


18.
Select the answer(s) for which you have experience?
 A. Accounting principles and government accounting standards.
 B. Interpreting financial data.
 C. Management controls reviews.
 D. Interfacing with external audit entities (e.g. Government Accountability Office (GAO), Office of Inspector General (OIG).
 E. Implementing accounting system and policy changes.
 F. None of the above


19.
Please choose the statements that describe your experience interacting with a variety of people to achieve effective solutions.
 A. I have served as spokesperson for an organization (such as a section, branch, or division).
 B. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 C. I have presented, defended, and negotiated specific goals, needs, or problems with senior management.
 D. I have independently planned and conducted meetings.
 E. I have served on focus groups, committees, or project teams with regard to accounting issues.
 F. I have provided guidance to external parties on accounting issues.
 G. None of the above


20.
Which best describes how you resolve problems?
 I creatively find innovative ways to resolve complex problems within the scope of existing constraints.
 I review policies and procedures but deviate from them to create better options to resolve problems.
 I find ways to resolve problems regardless of policy and procedures.
 I vary from policy and procedures occasionally.
 I follow policies and procedures to deliver results.
 None of the above


21.
Select the oral communication activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis at work.
 A. Met with high level officials, client or customers to discuss financial statements or data.
 B. Represented a work group or organization at meetings.
 C. Responded to telephone requests from colleagues, managers, or clients both inside and outside of the organization.
 D. Acted as primary liaison with other organizations.
 E. None of the above


22.
From the following list of interpersonal communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied.
 A. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent change, delay, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuaded and/or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 F. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 G. Worked cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal.
 H. None of the above


23.
Select the statement that best describes your experience giving formal presentations about program and project issues.
 I have limited experience giving presentations on program and project issues.
 I have given presentations on routine program and project issues to officials in my organization.
 I have given presentations on routine program and project issues with key elements to management officials in my organizations.
 I have given presentations on routine, program and project issues to peers and management officials in my immediate organization and external to my organization.
 I have given presentations on program and project issues of a controversial or sensitive nature to a wide range of individuals internal and external to the Agency.
 None of the above


24.
Choose the statements that describe your experience briefing and interacting with senior level management.
 A. I have prepared written reports to brief senior level management of highly sensitive information and issues related to ongoing projects.
 B. I have presented recommendations to senior level management officials, defended my position, and achieved the desired outcome.
 C. I have verbally provided information, advice, and guidance to senior level executives and managers regarding project and program issues.
 D. None of the above


25.
Select the choice that most accurately illustrates your experience with written communications.
 I have composed written correspondence, reports, or summaries that were used by senior management to base business decisions.
 I have composed written correspondence, reports, or summaries that were used to establish procedures/guidelines or explain issues.
 I have composed non-routine, technical and non-technical, correspondence in draft form.
 I have composed routine correspondence in final form.
 I have not developed written correspondence or reports.


26.
I have experience in writing the following: Select all that apply.
 A. Presentation materials
 B. Talking points
 C. Briefing or issue papers
 D. Policy guidance
 E. Materials for distribution electronically
 F. Training manuals or training guidelines
 G. Publications, articles, or press releases
 H. Employee Performance Appraisals
 I. Technical reports
 J. None of the above


27.
What types of recommendations have you made based on analyses.
 A. Financial policy change
 B. System improvements
 C. Security improvements
 D. Process improvements
 E. Personnel changes
 F. Improved internal controls
 G. Cost savings measures
 H. Risk mitigation
 I. None of the above


28.
Indicate the accounting activities with which you have experience.
 A. Financial reporting
 B. General ledger
 C. Accounts payable
 D. Accounts receivable
 E. Financial auditing
 F. Operational auditing
 G. Cost accounting
 H. Reimbursements
 I. Budgeting
 J. Systems Accounting
 K. None of the above


29.
Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of experience in analyzing, researching, evaluating and developing solutions for complex accounting issues.
 Analyzed accounting and financial management issues.
 Wrote accounting and financial procedures and standards.
 Assisted in developing financial applications as a senior expert.
 Managed the development of written accounting and financial procedures and standards for central accounting or general ledger functions.
 Managed the review and analysis of complex accounting and financial management issues related to central accounting or general ledger functions.
 Managed the resolution of complex technical and accounting problems related to government wide or corporation wide accounting systems.
 None of the above


30.
Which of the following best reflects your experience in delivering quality work products that satisfy team and/or organizational priorities and deadlines?
 I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed independently and within the assigned deadlines and milestones.
 I normally work on individual projects or assignments that are generally completed in a team setting and within the assigned deadlines and milestones.
 In addition to managing multiple tasks / assignments within a common time period, I negotiate deadlines, changes, and adjustments in priorities with management on my own behalf as well as that of my work group. I have assisted others to determine how to best use their time and how to re-prioritize their work when situations warrant.
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙