Position Title
Furniture Factory Worker Supervisor (Complex Factory Foreman)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
FPI-26-13050024 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


2.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


3.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify related skills may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONS

LISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
Factory Foremen must have the ability to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have supervised small groups of workers; and/or I have estimated time and materials; and/or I have provided training to new workers; and/or I have supervised small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have organized work assignments.
 I have supervised journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have estimated material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow and work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers.
 I have led co-workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have organized material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.
 None of the above.
 I have supervised an inmate crew in the line of work in a correctional setting; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities and scheduled workflow in keeping with security needs; and/or I have provided formal or informal training to members of the crew.


3.
Factory Foremen must have the aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions in a correctional setting/environment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated ability to stimulate interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work.
 I have researched information related to possible careers in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have completed the interview process for a position in corrections or law enforcement; and/or I have submitted an application to vacancy announcement for a position dealing with inmates at a correctional facility; and/or I have attended a law enforcement career fair; and/or I have completed a college course in corrections, law enforcement, or other related field.
 I have observed the principles and practices of prison security to include safeguarding shop tools and materials that could be used to harm persons or effect escapes and to report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems.
 None of the above.
 I have supervised individuals in a community crime or delinquency prevention program; and/or I have obtained a degree in criminology or other related area; and/or I have worked in a correctional facility; and/or I have performed law enforcement duties related to arrest, detention or incarceration of individuals; and/or I have presented vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization.


4.
Factory Foremen must have the ability to assemble, install and repair components, assemblies and systems of woodworking machine equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked on woodworking machine equipment and sought assistance only when encountering unusual problems; and/or I have experience in repairing and operating woodworking machine equipment; and/or I have used written instructions to assemble woodworking machine equipment.
 I have directed lower graded workers in assembly, installation and repair of major items related to woodworking equipment; and/or I have determined the type and extent of repairs required for the entire woodworking machine and the working relationships of its components.
 I have satisfactorily performed machine repair duties under supervision; and/or I have assisted other mechanics in machine repair duties; and/or I have acquired woodworking machine repair knowledge through classroom training in a trade school; and/or I have disassembled, cleaned, adjusted, and replaced defective parts in woodworking machines; and/or I have performed routine maintenance related to woodworking machine equipment; and/or I have prepared estimates for routine repairs.
 I have assembled and installed woodworking machine equipment; and/or I have diagnosed and overhauled woodworking machines and components; and/or I have experience as an instructor of woodworking machine assembly, installation and repair.
 None of the above.


5.
Factory Foremen must have the knowledge and ability required to follow wood working practices such as precise measurements and keeping tolerances, conserving materials, applying new developments, and other woodworking practices. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have trained as worker on production equipment used in the industry; and/or I have experience as a worker in a small cabinet shop with production equipment; and/or I have made recommendations for manufacturing processes.
 I have experience in making "one of a kind" furniture pieces for profit and developed a familiarity with the processes and materials used in their production; and/or I have experience with assisting in making "one of a kind" furniture pieces for profit and developed a familiarity with the processes and materials used in their production; and/or I have followed instructions as provided by manufacturing software.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising workers in the furniture or Cabinet factory; and/or I have been held responsible for a section of the factories production process; and/or I have experience as a key worker in the furniture/cabinet industry with experience on essential equipment and accountability for its production.
 None of the above.


6.
Factory Foremen must have the ability to respond to instructions and specifications such as blueprints, manuals, sketches, and work orders. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have taken the furniture designers drawings and made shop drawings used on the factory floor to manufacture the furniture; and/or I have used engineers blueprints for making furniture and interpreted the materials and equipment needed to manufacture the item which was used to calculate the cost of manufacturing; and/or I have verified sales order instructions and specification met customer demand.
 I have experience in solving problems by interpreting drawings and specifications, and determining what errors were made in manufacturing; and/or I have made recommendations for improving manufacturing efficiency or quality that were implemented based on a review of the product drawings; and/or I have verified production orders met manufacturing specifications.
 I have set up a variety of shop equipment to make cabinet parts using shop drawings and/or instructions; and/or I have laid out a pattern of holes to be drilled; and/or I have marked parts to be cut using shop drawings.
 None of the above.


7.
Factory Foremen must have the ability to lay out work and structures from blueprints, using measuring tools common to the woodworking trade. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have followed blueprints in laying out pre-cut cabinet parts; and/or I have laid out portions of cabinet patterns at the direction of section foreman; and/or I have followed directions and drawings of the crew leader, laid out sections, framework and some finish work.
 From complex blueprints, I have figured types of materials and planned layout of furniture parts needed; and/or I have used fine measurements in prescribing length to be cut; and/or I have made drawings from blueprints for others to follow in laying out sections; and/or from ideas of customers, I have developed plans and made drawings; and/or I have conducted all measurements, estimated materials from the measurements and laid out all work, including finish.
 I have interpreted specifications from blueprints and drawings; and/or I have determined exact quantities of materials and laid out parts to be machined; and/or from work orders, sketches and instructions, I have laid out all types of finished work for custom cabinets.
 None of the above.


8.
Factory Foremen must have the knowledge of and ability to use a variety of hand and power tools and equipment, including assembly, installation and maintenance. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have used all hand and power tools for maintaining inside of shop; and/or I have set up and operated power saw, used standard measuring tools such as calipers, tapes, try square, etc.; and/or I have used heavier woodworking equipment; and/or as a finish woodworking foreman, I have used various common hand and power tools including circular saw, power sander, electric drill and radial saw.
 I have used all hand and power tools for making one of a kind furniture; and/or I have set up and operated a power saw and used standard measuring tools; and/or I have assisted in the making of furniture or cabinets as an employee, and used various tools in making cabinets or furniture for sale.
 I have instructed apprentices in use of various tools and equipment used in the manufacture of furniture or cabinets; and/or I have set up and operated saws, tenon machines, molders, boring machines, CNC routers and various measurement tools for fine measurement.
 None of the above.
 As a self-employed woodworker or cabinet maker, I have used all common hand and powered equipment for the trade including planers, jointers, table saws as well as 32mm boring equipment; and/or I have made furniture and cabinetry and finished the items to the customer's specification using spray equipment.


9.
Factory Foremen must have the knowledge of the properties, purposes, and uses of the common woodworking materials. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have developed a knowledge of the materials used in the furniture industry and identified their proper application for their use; and/or I have experience in working with a variety of the common materials used in making furniture and selected the right tools and processes needed to work the material into the desired part; and/or I have identified defects and make adjustments as recommended.
 I have specified the quantity and quality of materials used in the manufacture of furniture or cabinets and insured the correct quality of the materials was received by inspecting the materials in accordance to industry standards; and/or I have made recommendations for the substitution of materials to correct ongoing quality problems in furniture or cabinet manufacturing; and/or I have worked with vendors to explain specifications and quality requirements.
 I have used Engineers blueprints and interpreted the materials needed to manufacture the furniture cost effectively using company or industry standards; and/or I have experience inspecting materials for adherence to set quality specifications and worked with vendor in resolving any problems; and/or I have followed predefined alternatives and substitutes for materials.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙