Position Title
Supervisory IT Specialist (Software Applications)
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
26-FS-12914321-MPA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 25, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current Fiscal Service employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
Current FS employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a VRA appointment.
Current FS employee serving on a Schedule A appointment.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. Hyattsville, MD
 C. Landover, MD
 D. Kansas City, MO
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Austin, TX
 G. Parkersburg, WV


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


6.
When The Bureau of Fiscal Service completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
For the GS-15, you must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes ALL of the following:
- Oversight of program-level initiatives, including information technology (IT) systems development projects involving multiple information technology (IT) disciplines from design to support; AND
- Experience providing advice, recommendations, and escalation of issues to management and other vested parties on topics surrounding information technology (IT); AND
- Experience supervising a technical staff of information technology (IT) Specialists.

Select the option that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement.

 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level described above.
 I do NOT have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level described above.


2.
Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience/education so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
In addition to meeting specialized experience, applicants must have IT-related proficiency in each of the four competencies below.

- Attention to Detail, such as initiating and directing special studies to test, adjust, or improve existing computer hardware and system software.
- Customer Service, such as evaluating, integrating and supporting technologies to help internal and external customers achieve their goals.
- Oral Communication, such as meeting with high-level contacts to justify and defend the commitment of resources for a program.
- Problem Solving, such as developing and maintaining continuity of operations and disaster recovery plans.

Do you possess all four competencies listed above in your IT-related experience?

 Yes
 No


4.
From the following list, select the one choice that best describes your communication skills.
 I have regularly served as a subject matter expert in dealing with managers.
 I have regularly participated in discussions with managers in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems.
 I have justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving complicated administrative functional issues. This included communicating effectively with a full range of individuals or groups.
 None of the above.


5.
Which of the following challenges have you successfully met in communicating with others in jobs you have held?
 A. I have solved operational problems by bringing parties together to resolve conflicts or disputes.
 B. I have led the development of alternative or new solutions in collaboration with others.
 C. I have influenced or motivated others to accept my plan or approach.
 D. I have solicited information from sources that were reluctant at first.
 E. None of the above.


6.
Choose the statements that apply to your experience in interacting with a variety of people in various situations to achieve effective solutions.
 A. I have served as a spokesperson for an organization.
 B. I have facilitated communications and activities between organizational entities.
 C. I have mediated or facilitated problem resolution.
 D. I am regularly consulted by peers, other agency representatives, or private industry on technical, programmatic, or professional issues.
 E. I have presented, defended, or negotiated program specific mission goals, needs, or problems with senior management and/or contract representatives.
 F. I have independently planned and conducted meetings.
 G. I have served on panels, committees, or task forces on technical or programmatic issues.
 H. None of the above.


7.
Indicate your experience maintaining, promoting, and forging effective relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have established effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have led efforts to promote establishing effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have worked on teams to promote establishing effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have developed programs to promote establishing effective working relationships with program stakeholders.
 I have not performed any of the above tasks.


8.
Which of the following organizations have you worked with? Select all that apply.
 A. Treasury Financial Agents
 B. Treasury Fiscal Agents
 C. Federal agencies
 D. Large Corporations
 E. Medium-sized Corporations
 F. Small Businesses
 G. None of the above.


9.
Describe your highest level of involvement in establishing and documenting methodologies and standards.
 I have used technical documentation to access needed information.
 I have maintained document libraries using established methodologies and standards.
 I have authored technical documents.
 I have defined methodologies and standards that are followed by others.
 None of the above.


10.
Which of the following types of documents have you written?
 A. Correspondence or memoranda
 B. Project status reports/updates
 C. Business requirement documents
 D. Technical requirement documents
 E. Project plans
 F. Risk analysis
 G. Alternative analysis
 H. Financial summary reports
 I. Technical reports
 J. Standard operating procedures
 K. Directives
 L. Regulatory/statutory material
 M. Policy guidance
 N. Analysis of proposed policy, legislative, or management initiatives
 O. Option papers/decision memos
 P. Publications
 Q. Books
 R. Research papers
 S. Strategic plans
 T. Budget documents or proposals
 U. Budget or financial plans
 V. Performance measures
 W. None of the above.


11.
Choose the response that MOST accurately reflects your capability in judgment and decision making.
 I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation.
 I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation, anticipated impacts and implications of alternatives and taken appropriate action without over analyzing.
 I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation, anticipated impacts and implications of alternatives and taken appropriate action without over analyzing and used various decision tools and techniques for analyzing and weighing information.
 I have led others in decision analysis and decision-making approaches. I have used available information and judgment to arrive at a course of action to meet the parameters, timelines, and deadlines of the situation, anticipated impacts and implications of alternatives and taken appropriate action without over analyzing and used various decision tools and techniques for analyzing and weighing information.
 None of the above.


12.
From the following list, select those activities that represent your experience in solving problems:
 A. Resolved problems under close supervision.
 B. Resolved problems independently.
 C. Worked closely with individuals and groups to identify issues, analyze alternatives, and negotiate differences.
 D. Combined pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions.
 E. Facilitated the resolution of conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed in order to meet objectives.
 F. Prepared analytical documents such as decision memos that identified policy or process issues and offer multiple options for resolution.
 G. Applied general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
 H. Reviewed and recommended improvements in program policies, procedures, legislation, or other complex documents.
 I. Served on teams assigned the task of brainstorming alternative solutions to previously identified issues and evaluating the effectiveness of those alternatives.
 J. I have no experience solving problems.


13.
Which of the following choices best reflects your highest level of experience solving problems?
 I have no experience solving problems.
 I have experience solving problems that require developing cooperation, coordination of activities, and reaching consensus.
 I have experience solving problems that require agreement on complex issues, achieving cohesiveness, and interacting with individuals constructively.
 I have experience solving problems that require analyzing and solving complex problems collectively, inspiring others, building cohesiveness among diverse individuals, and reaching solutions on controversial issues.


14.
Select the statement that best describes your experience applying application development and maintenance concepts, principles, methods, and practices.
 I have managed others in the performance of this task with little or no supervision.
 I have performed this task on the job, with close supervision from supervisor or senior employee.
 I have had education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have no experience in performing this task.


15.
Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience.


16.
In which of the following areas of Information Technology do you have applied experience?
 A. Policy and Planning
 B. IT Security
 C. System Analysis
 D. Application Software Development
 E. Operating Systems
 F. Network Services
 G. Database Management
 H. Internet/Intranet Development
 I. Systems Administration
 J. Customer Support
 K. Configuration Management
 L. Disaster Recovery
 M. Governance
 N. Identity Management
 O. Agile Development
 P. None of the above.


17.
I have applied experience with the following programming languages, tools, or databases:
 A. High-level programming language (Java/C/C++ or similar)
 B. Markup or scripting language (HTML/JavaScript or similar)
 C. Relational Database (DB2/Oracle or similar)
 D. None of the above.


18.
Which of the following best describes your ability to provide level of effort (LOE) or rough order of magnitude (ROM) estimates for systems based on high level requirements?
 I have managed individuals and/or teams that have reviewed high level requirements and prepared level of effort or rough order of magnitude estimates for advanced systems with several tables and columns and/or interfaces.
 I reviewed high level requirements and prepared level of effort rough order of magnitude estimates for interfaces as part of a team.
 I have no experience in this area.


19.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience designing user interfaces?
 I have managed and trained others to review requirements for new interfaces, design user interfaces, and code for new interfaces.
 I have designed user interfaces.
 I have coded for new interfaces.
 I have reviewed requirements for new interfaces.
 None of the above.


20.
Which of the following describes your experience with gathering software requirements, software design, and evaluating software technologies? Select all that apply.
 A. I have designed software for all layers of an application.
 B. I have designed software that was utilized by an organization or other third-party entity.
 C. I have analyzed and refined software requirements.
 D. I have translated system requirements into application prototypes.
 E. I have evaluated new software technologies in order to make possible recommendations.
 F. I have assisted customers in defining requirements for a software development effort.
 G. I have been a participant in requirements gathering efforts.
 H. I have independently designed user interfaces based on requirements provided by the customer.
 I. I have managed individuals and/or teams in the gathering or software requirements, software design and evaluation of software technologies.
 J. I have no experience in gathering software requirements.
 K. I have no experience in software design.
 L. I have no experience evaluating software technologies.


21.
I have performed the following personnel management functions:
 A. Setting standards, expectations, and deadlines
 B. Planning work assignments to be assigned to employees
 C. Establishing work schedules and worksite assignments
 D. Assigning tasks and responsibilities to employees
 E. Reviewing completed work for technical accuracy
 F. Following up with employees to assure timeliness in meeting milestones
 G. Resolving conflicts, differences, or problems
 H. Coaching and mentoring employees to achieve desired results
 I. None of the above.


22.
What is the highest level role held in which you have been responsible for monitoring / evaluating other people's performance?
 Staff member
 Team leader
 First line supervisor
 Middle manager
 Senior manager
 None of the above.


23.
Please indicate which of the following best describes your experience planning and organizing work to achieve the goals of a program or organization.
 I planned, developed, and implemented programs with organizational scope and impact; managing work teams and/or advisory groups in the overall design of systems and programs.
 I established annual, multi-year, or similar types of long-range work plans for an organizational component; setting goals and objectives; planning for short and long term resource needs.
 I set goals and/or planned work to be accomplished by others; set and adjusted priorities, and prepared schedules for the completion of work.
 I planned and organized my own work assignments against deadlines assigned by my Supervisor; often handling several work assignments at the same time.
 None of the above.


24.
From the following list, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied.
 A. Facilitated the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation was needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interacted effectively in situations where frequent change, delay, or unexpected events arose that caused major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provided direction, guidance, or instruction to staff.
 D. Persuaded and or inspired others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 E. Diffused confrontational situations with people who were difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 F. Developed effective, productive working relationships with subordinates, colleagues, and supervisors to achieve goals and objectives.
 G. None of the above.


25.
Choose the statement that best describes your highest level of managerial/supervisory experience.
 I have experience serving as a Team Project Leader with responsibility for communicating goals and priorities, developing assignments, establishing deadlines, providing feedback and coaching, and ensuring that completed assignments meet established standards and program requirements.
 I have experience providing direction and supervision to a staff of journeyman-level personnel which included responsibility for establishing performance standards, expectations, and deadlines, prioritizing work, resolving conflicts and complaints, managing workload distribution, reviewing and approving completed assignments, evaluating performance, recruiting and hiring, and promoting EEO principles and practices.
 I have experience managing an organization with subordinate managers reporting directly to me. Responsibilities included establishing program priorities, budgeting, and internal controls, allocation of resources, measuring program performance, and ensuring program goals align with organizational goals.
 I have executive managerial experience with responsibility for establishing and reinforcing broad organizational goals, vision, and program priorities, ensuring that sound strategic and operational plans are established, including multi-year planning, enforcing accountability for organizational performance, and enlisting support and buy-in from external parties for the organization's programs.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙