Position Title
Program Applications Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12930830-26-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 13, 2026 to Apr 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
RESUME REMINDER - You resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job Title; Duties (be as detailed as possible);
Month and Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (includes hours worked per week)
Series and Grade if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
List the duties you performed under each individual job title.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your response to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. 

To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Select the appropriate response to the following questions based on your level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-in-Grade Restriction - Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. These applicants must have held the GS-07 grade or higher for a year in order to meet this requirement for the GS-09 level and held the GS-09 grade or higher for a year in order to meet this requirement for the GS-11 level of this vacancy. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal service.


1.
Minimum Qualifications GS-09: (Developmental level): This is a career ladder position leading to the full performance level of GS-0301-11. Advancement to the full performance level will be recommended only after it has been determined that the incumbent meets all regulatory and statutory requirements, is satisfactorily progressing in the training, is successfully performing the currently assigned range of duties as outlined in the target position of GS-0301-11 and is capable of taking on expanded duties and responsibilities with greater independence. 

GS 9 Qualifications Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-07 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: plans, coordinates, and carries out the successive steps in fact-finding and analysis of issues necessary to complete each phase of assigned projects; skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature; using qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques such as: literature search; work measurement; task analysis and job structuring; productivity charting; determining staff to workload ratios.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience and/or education that qualifies you for this position level.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes but not limited to the following: plans, coordinates, and carries out the successive steps in fact-finding and analysis of issues necessary to complete each phase of assigned projects; skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature; using qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques such as: literature search; work measurement; task analysis and job structuring; productivity charting; determining staff to workload ratios.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B or J.D., if related. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of experience and education as described as described above. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I do NOT have the experience and/or education as described in the above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications GS-11 (Full performance level): Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience and/or education that qualifies you for this position level.

GS-11 Qualifications Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-09 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Provide leadership and train others in the use of software applications; Coordinate ongoing data collection and perform analysis to determine optimal organizational performance; Organize, compile, summarize, and analyze the data collected and develop reports which reflect the scope of activities and identifies trends and opportunities for improvement; Extensive knowledge of computer applications to include MS Word, database management; Coordinate, plan and implement training needs for staff; Development of training materials and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); Establishing administrative qualitative standards.

Please select the appropriate answer below that best describes your experience and/or education that qualifies you for this position level.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes but not limited to the following: Provide leadership and train others in the use of software applications; Coordinate ongoing data collection and perform analysis to determine optimal organizational performance; Organize, compile, summarize, and analyze the data collected and develop reports which reflect the scope of activities and identifies trends and opportunities for improvement; Extensive knowledge of computer applications to include MS Word, database management; Coordinate, plan and implement training needs for staff; Development of training materials and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP); Establishing administrative qualitative standards.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.M., if related. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of experience and education as described as described above. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I do NOT have the experience and/or education as described in the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙