Position Title
Criminal Investigator (Operations Officer)
Agency
National Science Foundation
Announcement Number
OIG-26-12949814 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Enter the number of MONTHS of Federal service experience you have attained as a firefighter, law enforcement or air traffic controller.


3.

Are you a current NSF OIG employee who holds a competitive service position at the same or higher grade than the position being announced? 
 

If you answered yes, you must submit your SF-50. 

 Yes
 No


4.

Are you a current NSF OIG employee who holds a competitive service position at a lower grade than the position being announced? 

If you answered yes to this question, you must submit your SF-50.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


1.
Select the statement that best describes your qualifications to perform work at the GS-1811-14 level or equivalent pay band in the federal service for the Criminal Investigator (Operations Officer) position
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level in the federal service identifing indicators of fraud by developing proactive analytical methodologies; referring indicators of fraud for further investigation; tracking proactive investigative activity to identify and analyze emerging fraud trends; uncovering information to analyze reported complaints by conducting investigative interviews; drafting changes to organizational policies and procedures to address new legislation, higher-level policy changes and/or emerging issues.
 I do not have the experience described above.


2.
Are you a current, permanent employee of the NSF OIG?
 Yes, I am
 No, I am not


3.
Applicants not previously covered under Federal Law Enforcement Officer (FLEO) retirement provisions or those not eligible for veterans preference must NOT have reached age 37 at the time of appointment.
 I have not yet reached the age of thirty-seven (37) and will not reach 37 prior to 30 days from the closing date of this announcement.
 I have reached the age of thirty-seven and have been previously or am currently appointed to a Federal law-enforcement position covered under the FLEO retirement provisions.
 I have reached the age of thirty-seven and am eligible for military veterans' preference for employment.
 I have reached the age of thirty-seven and I am not currently serving in a law enforcement position covered by the FLEO retirement provisions and I am not eligible for military veterans’ preference for employment.


4.
I understand that a condition of employment will be the successful completion of physical qualifications testing
 Yes, I understand that I will be required to successfully complete physical qualifications testing as a condition of ongoing employment.
 No, I don’t agree to complete the physical qualifications testing.


5.
I have completed the Basic Criminal Investigator Training Program at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) or another equivalent Federal law enforcement training program, such as with the US Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID), Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), or the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS).
 Yes
 No


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I did not receive any help in answering these questions. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙