Position Title
Med Rec Tech (CDIS Inpat)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12951828-26-HH Opens in new window
Open Period
May 01, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


4.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements for the position of a Medical Records Technician (Coder).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency. MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f). Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
United States Citizen. MRTs (Coder) must be a United States citizen under 38 U.S.C. ? 7402(c). Are you a United States citizen?

 Yes
 No


3.
You must meet at least one of the following criteria to qualify for at the entry level for this position:

(1) Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records. Or

(2) Education. An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); Or

(3) Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed; Or

(4) Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:

(a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses.

(b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder).

NOTE: Transcripts are required if you are using education to qualify; and your resume must demonstrate any claimed experience.
Do you possess at least one of the requirements as noted above?

Please choose the answer below that best describes your qualifications.
 Yes, I possess the required one year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder).
 Yes, I possess at least 2 years of education above high school with a minimum of 12 semester hours directly related to MRT work. (Transcripts required)
 Yes, I completed an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more. (Transcripts required)
 Yes, I posses equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education related to MRT. (Transcripts required)
 No, I do not possess the experience or education requirements as noted above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:

(1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.

(2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.

(3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.

NOTE: Mastery level certification is required for all positions above the journey level; however, for clinical documentation improvement specialist assignments, a clinical documentation improvement certification may be substituted for a mastery level certification.

Do you possess one of the certifications above?
 Yes
 No


Grade Determinations. In addition to the basic requirements for employment above, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Medical Records Technician (Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialist (CDIS-Outpatient and Inpatient), GS-9

(a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the journey grade level of a MRT (Coder-Outpatient and Inpatient); OR,

An associate's degree or higher, and three years of experience in clinical documentation improvement (candidates must also have successfully completed coursework in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records; OR,

Mastery level certification through AHIMA or AAPC and two years of experience in clinical documentation improvement;

OR,

Clinical experience such as RN, M.D., or DO, and one year of experience in clinical documentation improvement.

(b) Certification. Employees at this level must have either a mastery level certification or a clinical documentation improvement certification.

Assignment.
Develop and/or update medical center policy memoranda pertaining to documentation improvement. Serve as technical expert in health record content and documentation requirements.
Responsible for performing reviews of the health record documentation; developing criteria, collecting data, graphing and analyzing results, creating reports and communicating in writing and/or in person to appropriate leadership and groups.
Obtain appropriate corrective action plans from responsible clinical services directors, when necessary, and recommend improvements or changes in documentation as deemed necessary.
Adhere to established documentation requirements as outlined by accrediting agencies guidelines, regulations, policy and medical-legal requirements.
Responsible for the development and implementation of active training/education programs (i.e. seminars, workshops, short courses, informational briefings, and conferences) for all providers to ensure the CDIS program objectives are met.
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Knowledge of coding and documentation concepts, guidelines, and clinical terminology.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, pathophysiology, and pharmacology to interpret and analyze all information in a patient's health record, including laboratory and other test results to identify opportunities for more precise and/or complete documentation in the health record.
Ability to collect and analyze data and present results in various formats, which may include presenting reports to various organizational levels.
Ability to establish and maintain strong verbal and written communication with providers.
Knowledge of regulations that define healthcare documentation requirements, including The Joint Commission, CMS, and VA guidelines.
Extensive knowledge of coding rules and regulations, to include current clinical classification systems such as ICDCM and PCS, CPT, and HCPCS. They must also possess knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), MS-DRG structure, and POA indicators.
Knowledge of severity of illness, risk of mortality, complexity of care for inpatients, and CPT Evaluation and Management (E/M) criteria to ensure the correct selection of E/M codes that match patient type, setting of service, and level of E/M service provided for outpatients.
Knowledge of training methods and teaching skills sufficient to conduct continuing education for staff development. The training sessions may be technical in nature or may focus on teaching techniques for the improvement of clinical documentation issues.
Do you possess the experience, certification, and knowledge, skills, and abilities listed above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE.
 
Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. In your resume you will need to address the general and specialized experience listed below. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.
 
Resume should include for example: contact information; descriptions of jobs held, including the name and address of employer, job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date (month/year) of employment, average hours worked per week if part-time, and supervisor's name and phone number; education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙