Position Title
PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF)
Agency
U.S. Army, Pacific
Announcement Number
IPFC-26-13048303-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


4.
Incumbent must complete DoD SPARX Knowledge Part 1 and 2, training specific to prevention activities being delivered, and complete all requirements to obtain the OSD Credentialing Program for Prevention Personnel (D-CPPP) credential within six months of employment.  Are you willing to meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


5.
Per DoDI 6400.11, this position must acquire and maintain a Level 5 of the DoD Credentialing Program for Prevention Personnel (D-CPPP) in compliance with OSD guidance. This is a condition for employment. Supervisory Prevention Specialists will ensure the I-PAG workforce acquire and maintain the appropriate level D-CPPP credential to standard. Are you willing to meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Prevention Specialist (Prevention Workforce) GS-0101-12 position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
This job series has a Minimum Qualification (Basic Requirement) that must be met in order to be considered for the position. Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Prevention Specialist (Prevention Workforce) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in the behavioral or social sciences, or related disciplines appropriate to the position, such as prevention science or public health. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that provided me with knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have four years of appropriate experience that demonstrates that I have acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Prevention Specialist (Prevention Workforce) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service which includes 1) developing comprehensive prevention plans for the prevention of harmful behaviors; 2) advising and educating leaders on primary prevention activities; 3) integrating comprehensive primary prevention efforts through internal and external coalitions and partnerships; 4) developing valid and reliable data collection methods to assess prevention efforts; and 5) building the prevention capacity of the community through outreach and education. This definition of specialized experience is typical of work performed at the next lower grade/level position in the federal service (GS-11).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙