Position Title
Pathways Public Health Associates Program (PHAP) - Public Health Advisor
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-RG-26-12912696 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 16, 2026 to Mar 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Public Health Associate Program (PHAP) - Are you a recent graduate who has completed a qualifying Bachelors, Masters, or Doctorate degree within the previous two years or pending degree completion by July 1st of this year? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent transcripts. Note: Transcripts MUST reflect GPA. If you are a veteran, in addition to transcripts, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.

For more information, review CDC - Public Health Associate Program (PHAP)
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. If you elect not to answer the questions, you will not be disqualified or screened out from consideration for this vacancy.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Public Health Advisor position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your eligibility for Pathways Public Health Associates Program (PHAP) for Recent Graduates.
 I have completed, within the previous two (2) years, all educational requirements for a bachelor's or advanced degree from an accredited college or university.
 My intended graduation date, with a bachelor's or advanced degree, is no later than July 1, 2026.
 I am not a veteran and have completed all educational requirements for a degree, but not within the past two (2) years.
 I am a veteran who, due to a military service obligation was precluded from applying to the Pathways Public Health Associates Program (PHAP) for Recent Graduates during a portion of the two (2) year eligibility period and I have completed my degree within the past (6) years.
 I will complete all educational requirements for a degree, but not by July 1, 2026.
 None of the above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience/education and meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Public Health Associate Program for Recent Graduates, GS-0685-07.
 I have completed 1 year of graduate level education from an accredited college or university within the past 2 years.
 I will complete 1 year of graduate level education from an accredited college or university by July 1, 2026.
 I have Superior Academic Achievement (S.A.A.) in one or more of the following: (1) Class Standing - Rank in the upper one-third of your class in the college, university, or major subdivision; (2) Grade-Point Average (GPA) - cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on 4 years of education, or courses completed in the last 2 years of the curriculum or GPA 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 for all courses in your major field of study, or required courses in your major completed in the last two years of the curriculum; or (3) Membership in a National Honor Society Association of College Honor Societies (other than freshman honor societies).
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-05 grade level, which included experience obtaining, analyzing and developing data to assist public health officials.
 I have a combination of experience and education that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not possess the education requirement or specialized experience as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙