Position Title
Med Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12893508-26-DMM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


2.
What is the highest grade you have held on a non-temporary basis in the federal service? If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


3.
What was the start and end (if applicable) date of promotion/appointment for the highest grade held above? Your response will assist in verifying the time in grade requirement if applicable to this position. If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience, education, or certification on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


English Language Proficiency. MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f).


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


Definitions: (a.) Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) associated with current practice and must be paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder). (b.) Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference or through other independent means. (c.) Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional MRT is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time work week. For example, an MRT would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work.


2.
All MRT (Coders) are required to have at least one of the following basic required Experience and/or Education: Select the appropriate statement that best describes your experience and/or education.

 Experience. One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records. (Experience must be documented in your resume.)
 Education. An associate degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records)(Must provide transcripts.
 Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed.
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience: (a) Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses. (b) Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to an MRT (Coder).
 I do not have the experience and/or education listed above.


Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below: (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification. This is considered an entry level coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA), or the American Academy of Professional Coders (AAPC). To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in coding across a wide range of services. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of apprentice/associate level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of apprentice/associate level certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current apprentice/associate level certifications include: Certified Coding Associate (CCA), Certified Professional Coder-Apprentice (CPC-A) and Certified Outpatient Coding-Apprentice (COC-A). (2) Mastery Level Certification. This is considered a higher-level health information management or coding certification and is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA or AAPC. To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must represent a comprehensive competency in the occupation. Stand-alone specialty certifications do not meet the definition of mastery level certification and are not acceptable for qualifications. Certification titles may change and certifications that meet the definition of mastery level certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current mastery level certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist - Physician-based (CCS-P), Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT), Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder COC), Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC). (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification. This is limited to certification obtained through AHIMA or the Association of Clinical Documentation Improvement Specialists (ACDIS). To be acceptable for qualifications, the specific certification must certify mastery in clinical documentation. Certification titles may change, and certifications that meet the definition of clinical documentation improvement certification may be added/removed by the above certifying bodies. However, current Clinical Documentation Improvement Certifications include: Clinical Documentation Improvement Practitioner (CDIP) and Certified Clinical Documentation Specialist (CCDS). Loss of Credential. Following initial certification, credentials must be maintained through rigorous continuing education, ensuring the highest level of competency for employers and consumers. An employee in this occupation who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation, which may result in termination of employment. At the discretion of the appointing official, an employee may be reassigned to another occupation for which he/she qualifies, if a placement opportunity exists.


3.
Certification. Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (A), (B), or (C) below. Select the statement that best describes your certification. Documentation must be provided to support your selection. The only documentation accepted to verity your certification must be a screen shot or scanned printout from one of the following Websites: https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx (https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx) OR https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx (https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx), or https://acdis.org/directory-credential-holders (https://acdis.org/directory-credential-holders).

 Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. (Must provide copy of certification)
 Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. (CCS, CCS-P, RHIT, RHIA, CPC, COC) (Must provide copy of certification)
 Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS. (Must provide copy of certification)
 This requirement does not apply to me, as I am covered by the grandfathering exclusion, as I have been a VA employee in the occupation as of December 10, 2019. (Must provide SF-50 dated before 12/10/2019 and your most recent SF-50)
 I do not have the certification described above.


The following questions are used for grade determination as a Medical Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient). Education and experience will be verified.


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient), GS-04. Assignment. Employees at this level serve as entry level MRTs (Coder) and receive close guidance from more experienced MRTs (Coder). Inpatient MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM and the PCS, and/or, CPT and HCPCS classification systems for inpatient facility and/or professional services. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with close guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They also use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit.


Experience or Education for the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient): None beyond the basic requirements.


4.
For the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). Do you have at least the basic requirements listed above?

 Yes, I have at least the basic education and/or experience for the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). Transcripts must be provided for education and experience must be documented in your resume.
 No, I do NOT have the basic education and or experience for the GS-04 MRT(Coder-Inpatient).


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient), GS-05. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 1 MRTs (Coder) and receive guidance from more experienced MRTs (Coder) for more complex coding procedures. Inpatient MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, and/or CPT and HCPCS classification systems for inpatient facility and/or professional services. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They utilize various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They also ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. (a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level; OR (b) Education. Successful completion of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or technology. (c) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA): i. Ability to use health information technology and various office software products used in MRT (Coder) positions (e.g., the electronic health record, coding and abstracting software, etc.). ii. Ability to navigate through and abstract pertinent information from health records. iii. Knowledge of the ICD CM and PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting. iv. Ability to apply knowledge of medical terminology, human anatomy/physiology, and disease processes to accurately assign codes to inpatient records based on health record documentation. v. Knowledge of The Joint Commission requirements, CMS, and/or health record documentation guidelines. vi. Ability to manage priorities and coordinate work to complete duties within required timeframes and the ability to follow-up on pending issues.


5.
For the GS-05 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). Selectee the statement that best describes your education and/or experience. In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience or education and you can demonstrate the KSA listed above?

 In addition to the basic requirement, I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-05 as listed above. Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume.
 In addition to the basic requirements, I have successfully completed a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management or a related degree with a minimum of 24 hours in health information management or technology, and I can demonstrate the KSA for the GS-05 as listed above. Transcripts must be provided, and your resume must document the KSAs for the GS-05.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the GS-05 KSAs.


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient), GS-06. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve in developmental level 2 positions as MRTs (Coder) and receive intermittent monitoring. Inpatient MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, and/or CPT and HCPCS classification systems for inpatient facility and/or professional services. They review record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social and administrative data, and query clinical staff, as appropriate, with limited guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They also ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. (a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and (b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. ii. Ability to determine whether health records contain sufficient information for regulatory requirements, are acceptable as legal documents, are adequate for continuity of patient care, and support the assigned codes. This includes the ability to take appropriate actions if health record contents are not complete, accurate, timely, and/or reliable. iii. Ability to apply laws and regulations on the confidentiality of health information (e.g., Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, and HIPAA). iv. Ability to accurately apply the ICD CM and PCS Official Conventions and Guidelines for Coding and Reporting to various coding scenarios. v. Comprehensive knowledge of current classification systems, such as ICD Clinical Modification (CM) and PCS, CPT, and HCPCS, and skill in applying said classifications to inpatient records based on health record documentation. vi. Knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indicators to obtain correct Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Group (MS-DRG).vi. Knowledge of complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indicators to obtain correct Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Group (MS-DRG).


6.
For the GS-06 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above?

 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the lower grade level, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-06 MRT(Coder-Inpatient)as listed above. Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume.
 No, I do not have the experience for the GS-06 MRT(Coder-Inpatient)


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient), GS-7. Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as developmental level 3 MRTs (Coder) and receive minimal monitoring. Inpatient MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, and/or CPT and HCPCS classification systems for inpatient facility and/or professional services. They review and record documentation to abstract all required medical, surgical, ancillary, demographic, social and administrative data, with minimal guidance from higher level MRTs (Coder). They review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports the diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. (a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and (b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Skill in applying current coding classifications to a variety of inpatient specialty care areas to accurately reflect service and care provided based on documentation in the health record. ii. Ability to communicate with clinical staff for specific coding and documentation issues, such as recording diagnoses and procedures, the correct sequencing of diagnoses and/or procedures, and the relationship between health record documentation and code assignment. iii. Ability to research and solve coding and documentation related issues. iv. Skill in reviewing and correcting system or processing errors and ensuring all assigned work is complete. v. Ability to abstract, assign, and sequence codes, including complication or comorbidity/major complication or comorbidity (CC/MCC), and POA indicators, to obtain correct MS-DRG.


7.
For the GS-07 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience and can demonstrate the KSAs listed above?

 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-07 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume.
 No, I do not have the experience and/or I cannot demonstrate all the KSAs for the GS-07 MRT(Coder-Inpatient).


Medical Records Technician (Coder-Inpatient), GS-08. Assignment. This is the journey level for this assignment. Inpatient MRTs (Coder) select and assign codes from current versions of ICD CM, PCS, and/or CPT and HCPCS classification systems for inpatient facility and/or professional services. Inpatient duties consist of the performance of a comprehensive review of documentation within the health record to assign ICD codes for diagnosis, complications/major complications, comorbid/major comorbid conditions, surgery, and procedures for accurate assignment of diagnosis related groups (DRG), and/or assigning CPT/HCPCS codes for inpatient professional services. They independently review and abstract clinical data from the record for documentation of diagnoses and procedures to ensure it is adequate and appropriate to support the assigned codes. They code all complicated and complex medical/specialty diseases processes, patient injuries, and all medical procedures in a wide range of inpatient settings and specialties. They directly consult with the clinical staff for clarification of conflicting, incomplete, or ambiguous clinical data in the health record. They must abstract, assign, and sequence codes into encoder software to obtain correct DRG, support medical necessity, resolve encoder edits, and ensure codes accurately reflect services rendered. They review provider health record documentation to ensure that it supports diagnostic and procedural codes assigned and is consistent with required medical coding nomenclature. They query clinical staff with documentation requirements to support the coding process. They also enter and correct information that has been rejected, when necessary. They correct any identified data errors or inconsistencies. They ensure audit findings have been corrected and refiled. They use various computer applications to abstract records, assign codes, and record and transmit data. MRTs (Coder) may be assigned to a single facility or region, such as a consolidated coding unit. (a) Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and (b) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs: i. Ability to analyze the health record to identify all pertinent diagnoses and procedures for inpatient coding and to evaluate the adequacy of the documentation. This includes the ability to read and understand the content of the health record, the terminology, the significance of the comments, and the disease process/pathophysiology of the patient. ii. Ability to accurately perform the full scope of inpatient coding, including inpatient discharges, surgical cases, diagnostic studies and procedures, and inpatient professional services. iii. Skill in interpreting and adapting health information guidelines that are not completely applicable to the work or have gaps in specificity, and the ability to use judgment in completing assignments using incomplete or inadequate guidelines.


8.
For the GS-08 MRT(Coder-Inpatient). In addition to the basic requirements, do you have the experience, and can you demonstrate the KSAs listed above?

 Yes, in addition to the basic requirement, I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade, and I can demonstrate the KSAs for the GS-08 MRT(Coder-Inpatient) as listed above. Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume.
 No, I do not have the experience for the GS-08 MRT(Coder-Inpatient)


Resume Reminder-ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: (REQUIRED) Your contact information, phone number and email address. (1) Employer's Name (2) Employer's City, State (3) Job title (if a federal job, separate by grade level(s)) (4) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008 or 06/07-04/08) (5) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week for part-time schedules...i.e. 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6) Duties (be as detailed as possible) (7) Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying to. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


9.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete resume. Failure to follow the instruction for a complete resume will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand the required information that must be included in my resume, employer information, job title, dates worked, hours worked each week, and duties performed.
 No, I did not following the instructions that outlined a complete resume for this vacancy, and I understand I will not be referred.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRT work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts.


Certification Reminder- Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either: (1), (2), or (3) below: (1) Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. (2) Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. (3) Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS. Proof of certification must be provided from one or both of the following Websites: https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx OR https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx. Failure to provide proof of your current AHIMA or AAPC Certification with your application will result in not being referred.


Additional required documentation may be required such as transcripts, copy of certification from an approved AHIMA or AAPC Website, and applications and will be indication in the vacancy announcement as "Required". Failure to provide the "Required" document will result in not being referred. Proof of certification must be provided from one or both of the following Websites: https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx (http://Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.) OR https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx (http://Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.).


10.
I have read and understand the requirements for a complete application. Failure to follow the instructions and failure to provide the required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.

 Yes, I understand that I must provide all required documents listed in the vacancy announcement, failure to provide required document(s) will result in NOT being referred.
 No, I did not following the instructions that outlined a complete application for this vacancy, and I understand I will not be referred.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙