Position Title
Security Specialist (Security Manager) - Reservist
Agency
Federal Emergency Management Agency
Announcement Number
JGE-12980418-RSV Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
How did you hear about this Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) job opportunity?
 USAJOBS
 FEMA's Social Media (Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, etc.)
 Online Job board (Indeed, Zip Recruiter, etc.)
 FEMA.gov Careers Website
 FEMA Virtual Hiring Event
 FEMA On-Site Hiring Event
 College/University/Alumni Organization
 FEMA Employee Referral
 Other


2.
Are you a retiree receiving a federal annuity (either military or civilian)? Or have you accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years? (Select all that apply.)
 A. Yes, I'm receiving a military annuity.
 B. Yes, I'm receiving a civilian annuity.
 C. Yes, I've received a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.
 D. No, I am not receiving a federal annuity and have not accepted a buyout from a federal agency within the past 5 years.


3.
Are you a current FEMA employee?
 I'm a current FEMA Local Hire Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Reservist Employee
 I'm a current FEMA CORE Employee
 I'm a current FEMA PFT Employee
 I'm a current FEMA Senior Executive Service Employee
 I'm not a current FEMA Employee


4.
Are you currently serving, or have served within the last five years, as a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) employee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


5.
Please provide the following information regarding your political appointment(s): 1. Official Title of Position; 2. Type of Appointment (i.e. Schedule A, Schedule C, or non-career SES); 3. Name of Agency; 4. Date Position began; and 5. Date Position ended. (NOTE: If you have never held a political appointment, please enter N/A.)


6.
Within the past five years, have you received a buyout or payment through the Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment Authority (VSIP) when separating from a federal position?
 No
 Yes, and I understand candidates who are reemployed with the federal government within five years after receiving a buyout or payment under VSIP are required to repay the entire amount of the incentive prior to their onboarding date.


7.
Did you elect to voluntarily resign or retire through the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) or Workforce Transition Program (WTP)
 Yes
 No


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
If you are a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, have you registered with the Selective Service System?

Select "Not Applicable" if this question does not apply to you.
 Yes
 No, but I have an exemption
 I am a male at least 18 years of age, born after December 31, 1959, and have NOT registered with the Selective Service System and do NOT have an exemption.
 Not Applicable


2.
All FEMA employees are subject to 24-hour on-call in the event of an emergency and all Federal employees may be subject to emergency deployment. In the event of an emergency deployment, travel requirements may be extensive in nature (weeks to months), with little advance notice, and may require relocation to emergency sites, some of which are quite austere. The length of deployment may last anywhere from days to months, depending upon the nature of the emergency or disaster.

Every FEMA employee is considered an emergency manager and each employee has regular and recurring emergency management responsibilities, although not every position requires routine deployment to disaster sites. Your emergency management duties may vary depending on the needs of the Agency, your particular skills, and certain personal circumstances. All positions may require irregular work hours, work at locations other than the official duty station, and may include duties other than those specified in the employee's official position description.

Are you able to meet this commitment?
 Yes
 No


3.

In order to be hired for this position, applicants must undergo and successfully pass a background investigation. This may include a review of financial issues, such as delinquency, child support and/or tax obligations, as well as certain criminal offenses and illegal use of or possession of drugs.

Are you willing to undergo a background investigation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Do you have experience providing security-related information to employees and/or contractors?
 Yes
 No


2.
Have you written reports on security policy and/or procedures for an organization?
 Yes
 No


3.
I have utilized the following to create or maintain facility security. Select all that apply:
 A. Facility security documentation.
 B. Access controls.
 C. Locks.
 D. Cameras.
 E. Intusion Detection Systems (IDS).
 F. Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) design.
 G. None of the above.


4.
Select all of the responses below that describe your experience(s) in security administration:
 A. I have processed criminal record inquiries.
 B. I have processed fingerprints during the course of a background investigation.
 C. I have maintained a database of security-related files.
 D. I have maintained records of security-related reports.
 E. I have maintanted records of security-related requests.
 F. I do not have experience in any of the above.


5.
Have you supervised a team of direct reports?
 Yes
 No


6.
From the list below, select all administration and/or oversight duties you have performed involving security systems contracts.
 A. Performance reporting
 B. Invoice review
 C. Addressing gaps in service delivery
 D. Negotiating or selecting proposed remedies/settlements
 E. Executing contract close-out procedures
 F. None of the above


7.
I have performed the following security-related task(s) and/or process(s). Select all that apply:
 A. Recommend organizational change to improve physical security systems
 B. Coordinated with regional security personnel to ensure facilities are integrated
 C. Represented senior security leadership at seminars and meetings
 D. Presented briefs or reports to top officials and/or management
 E. None of the above


8.
I have assisted with conducting the following (check all that apply):
 A. Physical Security Assessment (site or building).
 B. Operations Security (OPSEC) Analysis (site or program).
 C. Force Protection Assessment.
 D. None of the above.


9.
I have conducted the following briefings (check all that apply):
 A. Standard Form (SF)-312 Briefings.
 B. SF-4414 Briefings.
 C. OPSEC Briefings.
 D. Special Access Program (SAP) Briefings.
 E. None of the above.


10.
Select the team/project leader duties you have performed.
 A. Led a team
 B. Planned work to be accomplished by a team
 C. Established and coordinated ground rules
 D. Assigned work to team members based on priorities
 E. Set and adjusted short-term priorities as needed
 F. Oriented new team members
 G. Coached team members in work performance
 H. Set individual goals and standards
 I. None of the above


11.
From the list below, select the task(s) you have at least one year of experience performing in a disaster setting:
 A. Administering security functions
 B. Providing security program oversight
 C. Providing coordination of security requirements
 D. Analyzing security issues or problems
 E. Analyzing reports of investigations
 F. Maintaining security records
 G. None of the above


12.
Do you have experience providing technical input to a contractual Statement of Work?
 Yes
 No


13.
Have you written multiple documents on sensitive or controversial issues that were distributed to external entities?
 Yes
 No


14.
 Select the response that best describes your education and/or experience:
 I possess the specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Failure to provide transcripts will result in an ineligible rating.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙