Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC INSPECTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12886243-AR-26-377 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education, and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
This position is open internal to Area I employees with duties currently assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard.

Which status/Area applicant are you?
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with duties currently assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently a Traditional military member (Drill, ADSW, etc.) of the Montana Army National Guard, a BARGAINING UNIT Indefinite (Tenure 3) or an NTE (Tenure 0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee or a NON-BARGAINING UNIT (of any Tenure – 1/2/3/0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee; T5 applicants must be eligible for MT Army National Guard military membership and willing to join, if not currently a military member. (Area II)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with duties NOT currently assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and can use common tools and equipment in the line of work.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training leading to an extensive knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex interconnecting systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment; ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify interconnected complex systems on a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment; extensive knowledge of state of the art electrical, electronic, complex hydraulic, pneumatic, and other major non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of major mechanical systems; extensive knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls; skill and knowledge to develop or improvise methods, alter parts, and make repairs in the absence of technical guidelines (such as modifying parts to fit and mesh into systems for which the parts were not designed); improvise modifications to equipment to correct recurring malfunctions; and design modifications to meet special test requirements or other special needs.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement?
(E4/SPC - E8/MSG)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙