Position Title
Quality Management Program Analyst
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12889178-HQ-DAC-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service?

Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Please select the response to the questions below that best describe your experience as it relates to this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 level in the Federal service which includes: (1) Analyzing compliance with marine safety, security, or environmental protection policies, including the U.S. implementation of international maritime treaties (e.g., IMO conventions). This includes identifying non-compliance and recommending corrective actions. (2) Applying recognized quality management standards (such as ISO 9001) to develop or improve a Quality Management System (QMS) for mission-oriented programs. This includes using QMS principles to enhance work processes, operational procedures, or cross-functional collaboration. (3) Assessing program effectiveness and compliance through comprehensive analysis and formal audits. This includes collecting and analyzing performance metrics, conducting program audits against established standards, or translating findings into actionable recommendations for leadership. (4) Guiding and coordinating multi-functional project teams through all phases of process evaluation and improvement initiatives. This includes planning, organizing, or leading efforts to implement mission-critical management systems and standardized processes at the program and field levels. (5) Serving as an internal consultant to advise managers and executives on quality management activities and process reengineering. This includes developing and presenting recommendations to leadership for improving program effectiveness, streamlining organizational processes, or procedural documentation.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


2.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙