Position Title
Paralegal Specialist (Litigation)
Agency
Office of General Counsel
Announcement Number
26-HUD-12940011-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to May 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Atlanta, GA
 B. New York, NY
 C. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
I am interested in having my application shared with other HUD hiring managers. I understand that electing this option will not impact my chances of selection from this vacancy announcement and does not guarantee that a similar vacancy announcement will be opened by another hiring manager for which I can be considered or selected. Please select one or more of the following HUD Program Offices that you authorize to receive your application information. If you do not wish for your application to be shared, please select "Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.
 A. Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships
 B. Congressional/Intergovernmental Relations
 C. Ginnie Mae (GNMA)
 D. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration
 E. Office of the Chief Financial Officer (OCFO)
 F. Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO)
 G. Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO)
 H. Office of the Chief Procurement Officer (OCPO)
 I. Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD)
 J. Office of Departmental Equal Employment Opportunity (ODEEO)
 K. Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FHEO)
 L. Office of Field Policy and Management (FPM)
 M. Office of General Counsel (OGC)
 N. Office of Housing
 O. Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes (OLHCHH)
 P. Office of Policy Development and Research (PD&R)
 Q. Office of Public Affairs (OPA)
 R. Office of the Secretary
 S. Public and Indian Housing (PIH)
 T. Please do not share my application information with other HUD hiring managers.


8.
How did you find out about this position?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


9.
Please provide any specifics on your response(s) above.


10.
Are you a current HUD employee?
 Yes
 No


Performance Appraisal
1.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so in the next question. If you do not provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application, you will need to provide a reason in the text box below.

(Note: If you answer "NO" to this question, you must provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box of the following question)

Have you submitted a copy of all pages of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal, dated within the last 12 months, that includes the final rating?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you answered "NO" to the previous question, please provide a reason as to why you were not able to provide a performance appraisal in the text box below.


Assessment 1
Specialized Experience for the GS-12, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
Work experience where the applicant has regularly performed legal research and prepared necessary documentation in the course of litigation, and analyzes relevant statutes, regulations and case law using on-line resources such as Westlaw/Lexis or responding to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests, supports real estate closings, real estate transactions, foreclosures, or other HUD Program areas


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-11 level or equivalent as described above.


1a.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties)


Specialized Experience for the GS-11, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
Work experience where the applicant has regularly performed legal research and prepared necessary documentation in the course of real estate closings, real estate transactions, foreclosures, or other housing areas and/or responding to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests.
OR

Education: Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, OR 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR LL.M. if related, in an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.

OR A combination of education and experience. Only graduate level education in excess of 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours), may be used to combine education and experience.


2.
Which of the following best describes your specialized experience/education for the GS-11 grade level?
 I have at least 1 full year or more of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service.
 I have a PhD or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work. OR I have an LL.M, in a field related to the position to be filled. If you select this response, you must submit a graduate level college transcript or course listing.
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. (For example: the completion of 50% requirements for PhD and 6 months of specialized experience.) If you select this response, you must submit a graduate level college transcript or course listing.
 I have none of the above.


Specialized Experience for the GS-09, you must have one year (full 52 weeks) of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service.

Specialized experience for this position is defined as:
Experience where the applicant performed legal research and prepared necessary documentation in support of legal recommendations and/or responses to legal proceedings, contracts, foreclosures, or real estate closings.
OR Education: Master's or equivalent graduate degree OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree OR LL.B. or J.D. in an accredited college or university that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.

OR A combination of education and experience. Only graduate level education in excess of 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours), may be used to combine education and experience.


3.
Which of the following best describes your specialized experience/education for the GS-09 grade level?
 I have at least 1 full year or more of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree that demonstrates the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work. OR I have a J.D., or LL.B. in a field related to the position to be filled. If you select this response, you must submit a graduate level college transcript or course listing.
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. (For example: the completion of 50% requirements for Masters and 6 months of specialized experience.) If you select this response, you must submit a graduate level college transcript or course listing.
 I have none of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙