Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Litigation Support)
Agency
Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys and the Office of the U.S. Attorneys
Announcement Number
26-INN-1931796-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Fort Wayne, IN
 B. South Bend, IN


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services (SES) appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF50s in the Electronic Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A non-career SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held one of the appointment types in the last 5 years.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions.

This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


For each of the following questions, select the response that best describes your education and/or experience. You may select only one response for each question. If you feel that your education or experience exceeds all of the descriptions for a particular question, choose the description that is the closest level to the experience or education that you possess. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-7 Information Technology Specialist.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level in federal service. Such experience is defined as experience applying Information Technology concepts, methods, standards, and practices as they relate to data and software management, i.e., knowledge of database creation and utilization, installing and configuring software and hardware; and resolves routine software/hardware issues. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-5 grade level in the Federal service and could have been gained in the federal, public, or private sector.
 I have completed one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Information Technology, Computer Science, Data Analytics/Management, Computer Programming, or Computer/Software Engineering.): one (1) full year of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR four (4) years of undergraduate level education in a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with superior academic achievement (For detailed information regarding a superior academic achievement (S.A.A.), see Section 4, Part F of the Application of Qualification Standards at https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-policies/#url=e4). The education must be obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates t
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education described in B which combined equal 100% of the requirements described.
 I do not have the education, experience, or combination thereof as described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-9 Information Technology Specialist.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in federal service. Specialized experience for this grade level is defined as experience applying Information Technology concepts, methods, standards, and practices as they relate to automated Litigation Support functions, i.e., maintaining litigation support equipment with assessing service and information requirements needed to complete automated litigation support (ALS) projects. This would include knowledge of database creation and utilization (using programs such as Eclipse SE, and desktop; Law Pre-Discovery, Relativity, IPRO, TrialDirector, TimeMap and CaseMap); electronic data acquisition and processing; pre-trial and trial support, including courtroom presentation services. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service and could have been gained in the federal, public, or private sector.
 I have completed one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Information Technology, Computer Science, Data Analytics/Management, Computer Programming, or Computer/Software Engineering.): master’s or equivalent graduate degree; OR two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.B. or J.D., if related. The education must be obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates that you po
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education described in B which combined equal 100% of the requirements described.
 I do not have the education, experience, or combination thereof as described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-11 Information Technology Specialist.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in federal service. Specialized experience for this grade level is defined as experience applying Information Technology concepts, methods, standards, and practices as they relate to automated Litigation Support functions, i.e. developing and managing Litigation Support systems that meet current and future needs. Qualifying experience involved independently performing the following types of duties: assessing service and information requirements needed to complete automated litigation support (ALS) projects as well as making recommendations. This would include knowledge of database creation and utilization (using programs such as Eclipse SE, and desktop; Law Pre-Discovery, Relativity, IPRO, TrialDirector, TimeMap and CaseMap); electronic data acquisition and processing; pre-trial and trial support, including courtroom presentation services. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-9 grade level in the Federal service and could have been gained in the federal, public, or private sector.
 I have completed one of the following types of education in a related field (e.g., Information Technology, Computer Science, Data Analytics/Management, Computer Programming, or Computer/Software Engineering.): Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M., if related. The education must be obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates that you possess the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in A and education described in B which combined equal 100% of the requirements described.
 I do not have the education, experience, or combination thereof as described above.


As previously explained, your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.



4.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this program.

I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

I understand a comprehensive background investigation, including a check of my credit history and a pre-employment drug screening, is required for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


You have submitted your answers for the Assessment Questionnaire. If you
provided an email address, you will receive a confirmation email upon receipt of this Assessment
Questionnaire. If you are determined to be minimally qualified to apply for this position, you will receive an email from the USA Hire system inviting you to take the required USA Hire Assessments within 24-48 hours. Please be sure to monitor your email inbox and any junk/spam mailboxes. Note: If you have previously completed the required USA Hire assessments for any other federal applications within the past year, you may not be required to complete one or more of the assessments associated with this vacancy announcement. Please review the Vacancy Announcement to assure that you have submitted all necessary supporting documents. Thank you for your interest


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙