Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (VIST Coordinator)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12880796-26-JAH Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 11, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Blind Rehabilitation Specialist-VIST Coordinator (BRS) position with the Martinsburg VA Medical Center. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Grandfathering Provision: All BRSs employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
(1) Such employees may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance (journey) level, or changed to lower grade within the occupation.
(2) Employees who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of the qualification standard may not have their temporary appointment extended or be reappointed, on a temporary or permanent basis, until they fully meet the basic requirements of the standard.
(3) Employees initially grandfathered into this occupation, who subsequently obtain additional education and/or certification(s) that meet all the basic requirements of this qualification standard must maintain the required equivalent credential(s) as a condition of employment in the occupation.
(4) If a BRS who was retained under this provision leaves the occupation, the employee loses protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation. Physical Requirements. See VA Directive and Handbook 5019, Employee Occupational Health Service.

VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT): VHA HPTs pending the completion of education or certification/licensure requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met. (NOTE: This applies to current/past/upcoming VHA HPTs only. An HPT is an individual appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experiences to satisfy program or degree requirements or receiving VA Health Professional Scholarship Program. HPTs can be either VA-paid or Without Compensation (WOC).)



1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates will not be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C. chapters 73 or 74, to service in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who are not proficient in written and spoken English. 

Are you proficient in written and spoken English?
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


2.
Education: The individual must have earned:
A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation, special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education.
OR,
A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following:
At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university).
One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically 15-18 semester hours).
A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree.
Foreign Graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
Do you meet one of the education requirements as listed above? (NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in their application with supporting documentation.)
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I have received an advanced degree from an accredited program; or I am on track to complete an advanced degree from an accredited program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


2a.
Provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's and/or doctoral degree.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree:
Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Certification: Required at the GS-11 grade level and above:
Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment. Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation. NOTE: The ACVREP administers four certification programs: Low Vision Therapy, Orientation and Mobility, Assistive Technology Instruction and Vision Rehabilitation Therapy. They may then use the designation for the certification they hold (as listed in below).
BRS who provide the following service must obtain certification granted by ACVREP as follows:
(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists(COMS)
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists(CVRT).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
(d) Assistive Technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialists(CATIS).

Do you meet on of the Certification requirements as listed above? (NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate the above requirements in their application with supporting documentation.)
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I will meet this requirement under the Health Professional Trainee (HPT) program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


4.
BRS GS-11 (VIST Coordinator-Developmental Level):

Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade level. GS-9 experience includes: Intake, assessment, planning for rehabilitation, intervention, and follow-up in the content specialties.


OR, 

Education: Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly related field.

AND, 

Certification: VIST Coordinator candidates must meet the certification requirements. BRSs who are VIST Coordinators may be drawn from traditional blind/vision rehabilitation backgrounds and from counseling backgrounds such as social work, vocational rehabilitation counseling, etc. VIST Coordinators may be credentialed/certified through any of the following:
Certification via the ACVREP;
 Licensure via the Social Worker Licensure Board;
Certification via the CRCC;
OR,
Equivalent and relevant professional credential in counseling or rehabilitation. [Examples of other health care occupations may include but are not limited to Marriage and Family Therapists or Licensed Mental Health Counselors.]

AND,

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to meeting the KSAs at the GS-9 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to communicate both orally and in writing with staff at all organizational levels; with Veterans and their family members; with community groups; and individuals with varying degrees of understanding about visual impairment.
Ability to assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
Ability to write a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
Knowledge of VA blind and low vision rehabilitation treatment programs.
Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers and other stakeholders.
Knowledge of psychological, rehabilitation, and counseling theories and principles.
Ability to coordinate with various resources to identify suitable training programs.

Do you meet the above requirements to qualify for the VIST Coordinator GS-11 position? (NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in their application with supporting documentation.)
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I will meet this requirement under the Health Professional Trainee (HPT) program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


5.
BRS GS-12 (VIST Coordinator-Full Performance Level):

Experience: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of a minimum of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to GS-11 grade level. GS-11 experience includes: Case management, A broad range of knowledge that includes not only the medical conditions and rehabilitation of Veterans who are blind and visually impaired, but also knowledge of their compensation and benefits, as well as VA and non-VA rehabilitation programs. In addition, VIST Coordinators work with Veterans and their families in readjustment counseling.

AND,

Certification: VIST Coordinators must meet the certification. (Requirements listed above.)

AND,

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to meeting the KSAs described at the GS-11 grade level, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Skill to effectively communicate both orally and in writing with staff at all organizational levels, with Veterans and their family members, with community groups, and individuals with varying degrees of understanding.
Ability to asses Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for therapeutic interventions.
Skill in writing a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines and contains observable, measurable goals that identify specific outcomes.
Knowledge of VA and non-VA blind and low vision rehabilitation treatment programs.
Skill in interpersonal relationships dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers, and other stakeholders.
Knowledge of psychological, rehabilitation, and counseling theories and principles.
Ability to coordinate with various resources to identify and refer Veterans to suitable training programs.
Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on a day-to-day basis, to develop short term and long-range goals, and to plan for future utilization of resources.

Do you meet the above requirements to qualify for the VIST Coordinator GS-12 position? (NOTE: Applicants must demonstrate above requirements in their application with supporting documentation.)
 Yes, I meet this requirement.
 Yes, I am a past, current, upcoming Veterans Health Administration Health Professional Trainee (HPT) graduate: I will meet this requirement under the Health Professional Trainee (HPT) program by the time of hire/appointment.
 No, I do not meet this requirement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙