Position Title
Child and Youth Program Food Service Worker FLEX
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12961929 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
This position requires a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education. You must provide documentation in order to be considered. Do you have a high school diploma (or equivalent) or higher education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in following food preparation procedures.
 Able to follow basic recipes and assemble or package foods for serving or delivery.
 Able to peel, cut, sort, wash, assemble, and measure food items and ingredients.
 Able to follow step-by-step procedures.
 Able to store and retrieve specific items.
 Limited or none.


3.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience or training in proper food and equipment handling.
 Able to use, clean, move, and store a variety of food ingredients and equipment in accordance with sanitation and safety requirements (e.g., proper timelines, temperatures, storage, etc.).
 Able to wash or sanitize food items, equipment, and surfaces such as utensils or countertops.
 Able to meet basic hygiene standards.
 Able to locate instructions or requirements.
 Limited or none.


4.
Select the response that best describes your experience in child & youth food service.
 12 or more months working in food service in a child & youth-related setting (e.g., daycare, school, children’s entertainment center, etc.).
 1 to 11 months working in food service in a child & youth-related setting (e.g., daycare, school, children’s entertainment center, etc.).
 Experienced with food service in other settings or interested in food service work.
 Able to perform food service tasks when necessary or under close supervision.
 No experience or interest in food service.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Do you affirm that all of the claims made in your application are true and accurate to the best of your knowledge and ability?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙