Position Title
Tax Specialist - Compliance Services Tax Compliance Officer
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13060431O-TSN-0526-11 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS - 11: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-9 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience for this position includes experience that demonstrates a substantive knowledge of business practices, basic accounting principles, and Federal tax laws and regulations; and that required the ability to audit tax records, analyze systems and bookkeeping, use fact-finding techniques, and develop interpersonal skills. Qualifying specialized experience may have been gained in work such as:
Office auditing various types of tax returns to determine tax liability of individual taxpayers, businesses, or corporations.
Applying pertinent parts of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations and procedures to: (1) conduct comprehensive analytical examinations (2) use creative in-office fact finding techniques, and (3) develop effective public contact skills.
Determination and redetermination, or audit, on liability for Federal taxes.
Program evaluation, internal audit or administrative management of the assessment and collection of Federal taxes (other than alcohol and tobacco).
Investigating alleged criminal violations of Federal tax statutes and making recommendations for criminal prosecution and assertion of civil penalties.
Collecting delinquent Federal taxes (other than alcohol and tobacco), including canvassing for unreported taxes due, and securing delinquent returns.
OR
EDUCATION: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in accounting, auditing, taxation, business administration, law or other related fields, or LL.M., if related.
OR
COMBINATION OF EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. Options for qualifying based on a combination will be identified in the online questions.
AND
ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENT:
Applicants must demonstrate their knowledge of Principles of Accounting and Intermediate Accounting. Candidates can demonstrate this knowledge either through successful completion of 12 semester hours / 18 quarter hours of college level accounting (with at least 6 semester / 9 quarter hours at the intermediate level) and/or experience. Applicants qualifying based on education must submit transcripts with their application.


Throughout the online application process, you will be asked a series of questions that will be used to determine your eligibility, qualifications, and rating and ranking for this position. Your responses to these questions will be further verified against the information provided in your resume, transcripts, and/or any other documents provided. The level and quality of your knowledge, skills, and abilities will be further evaluated throughout the hiring process via online ranking questions and/or interviews.



1.
ACCOUNTING KNOWLEDGE: Which of the following responses best describes your accounting knowledge gained through education and/or experience?
 I have successfully completed a bachelor's or higher degree in accounting as described above. (Please note that you must upload a copy of your transcripts for submission during the application process.)
 I have a certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) obtained through written examination or membership in the bar of a State, territory, or the District of Columbia AND meet education and/or experience requirements as described above.
 I have successfully completed at least 12 semester credits or 18 quarter credits of accounting.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and experience that required knowledge and application of accounting principles as described above.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience that required knowledge and application of accounting principles as described above.
 None of the above.


2.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION GS-11: Which of the following is true about your specialized experience and/or education?

Specialized experience for this position includes: Experience that demonstrates a substantive knowledge of business practices, basic accounting principles, and Federal tax laws and regulations; and that required the ability to audit tax records, analyze systems and bookkeeping, use fact-finding techniques, and develop interpersonal skills. Qualifying specialized experience may have been gained in work such as:

Office auditing various types of tax returns to determine tax liability of individual taxpayers, businesses, or corporations.
Applying pertinent parts of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations and procedures to: (1)conduct comprehensive analytical examinations, (2)use creative in-office fact finding techniques, and (3)develop effective public contact skills.
Determination and redetermination, or audit, on liability for Federal taxes.
Program evaluation, internal audit or administrative management of the assessment and collection of Federal taxes (other than alcohol and tobacco).
Investigating alleged criminal violations of Federal tax statutes and making recommendations for criminal prosecution and assertion of civil penalties.
Collecting delinquent Federal taxes (other than alcohol and tobacco), including canvassing for unreported taxes due, and securing delinquent returns.
OR
EDUCATION: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or Three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in accounting, auditing, taxation, business administration, law or other related fields,
OR LL.M., if related.
OR
COMBINATION OF EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION: You may qualify by a combination of experience and education. Options for qualifying based on a combination will be identified in the online questions.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major study in accounting, auditing, taxation, business administration, law, or other related fields as described above.
 I have three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major study in accounting, auditing, taxation, business administration, law, or other related fields as described above.
 I have a LL.M., if related.
 I have a combination of experience and graduate level education equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above.


3.
Which of the following ways have you contributed to improving the way work gets done in your work group or have contributed to your work environment?
 A. Identified things that can be improved and made suggestions to my manager
 B. Identified internal work process issue(s) and worked closely with management to improve the process.
 C. Selected by management to participate in formal review and revision of working technical procedures.
 D. Made tax related technical presentation(s) for the work group.
 E. Made tax related technical presentation(s) at a CPE.
 F. Completed assignment as an On-the-Job Instructor (OJI)
 G. Completed assignment as an TCO/IRA On-the Job Instructor (OJI).
 H. Taught new hires and/or train-the- trainer class.
 I. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience analyzing copies of tax returns, financial statements, tax records, etc., to make tax determinations?
 Analyzed complex tax returns, taxpayer documents or tax records to reconcile differences applying the tax law to resolve complex problems with a broad range of issues.
 Reviewed and analyzed taxpayer documents or tax records to reconcile differences applying the tax law to resolve complex problems with a broad range of issues.
 Served as the Subject Matter Expert or Lead for technical research in making tax determinations.
 NONE OF THE ABOVE


5.
What is the highest level of knowledge, coaching, and/or training you have regarding the tax law?
 Served as a Lead Instructor.
 Taught a new hire class.
 Served as an expert in my work group, I am sought for my expertise in resolving complex income tax law issues.
 Served as a trainer or coach of others to teach the income tax law (train-the-trainer).
 None of the above.


6.
Which of the following best describes your experience applying research to resolve tax-related questions through interpreting IRS policy or tax laws?
 Research to resolve questions.
 Conduct research and make sound judgment in interpretation based upon published guidance.
 Independently conduct research to resolve complex problems with broad application and conflicting guidance.
 Serve as the Subject Matter Expert or Lead for technical research in resolving potential high impact problems involving interpretation of conflicting guidance.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following statements describes your experience in verbal communication?
 A. Answer tax related questions over the phone and/or set up financial agreements.
 B. Receive tax related documents, answer tax questions and/or collect payment information face-to-face.
 C. Present information and answer questions for large groups of people (seminars outreach, etc.)
 D. NONE OF THE ABOVE


8.
Which of the following statements describes your experience with written communication?
 A. Communicate work related information with coworkers and/or my manager through emails.
 B. Composed letters to taxpayers.
 C. Write explanations of tax determinations for taxpayers.
 D. Write presentations for my work group and/or other work groups
 E. Write/updated course materials, Internal Revenue Manual (IRM), etc.
 F. Create work-papers, reports, and lead sheets to document tax law decisions and determinations.
 G. Use a software system to generate a tax report. (e.g., RGS)
 H. None of the above


9.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience persuading difficult people to cooperate?
 Received training in dealing with difficult people but have not had an opportunity to apply it.
 Diffused a situation with a difficult person in the workplace
 Diffused a situation with a difficult person in the workplace and was able to achieve resolution.
 None of the above


10.
Which of the following types of cases have you worked to completion?
 A. Fraud referrals
 B. IRC Section 183 - Activities not engaged for profit
 C. Employee audits
 D. Informant/Whistleblower cases
 E. Audit 1040 a flow through loss
 F. Community Property Split
 G. HINF (High Income Non-filer)
 H. None of the above.


11.
Which of the following statements best describes your experience following procedures and making judgments?
 Rely on my manager/on-the-job coach for guidance and direction to complete work.
 Read procedures and completed work as far as possible but require managerial guidance for resolution.
 Read and review procedures, make judgments, and finish work independently.
 Read and review procedures and oversee others judgment in following work procedures (e.g., lead, acting manager assignments).
 None of the above


12.
Which of the following best describes your experience managing your time and workload?
 Complete individual work assignments as they are assigned to me.
 Plan and schedule my workload as assigned to me.
 Independently planned, scheduled, and prioritized multiple assignments.
 Independently plan, schedule, and prioritize an inventory of cases and multiple assignments in an electronic calendar (i.e., Outlook).
 Developed/coached my peers on using workload management skills.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of the following best describes the flexibility you have demonstrated on the job?
 Rearrange a moderate amount of work priorities to accommodate occasional and temporary changes in priorities or workload.
 Made adjustments in work procedures and schedules to accommodate planned or unexpected changes.
 Changed routine tasks to comply with recently introduced policies and procedures.
 Made adjustments in work procedures/schedules to accommodate planned or unexpected changes, assisting others with changing routine tasks to comply with recently introduced policies and procedures.
 None of the above.


14.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙