Position Title
LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12966485-AR-26-119-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 03, 2026 to Jul 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

All current (nationwide) federal employees.  Are you a current federal employee?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1 or 2).

 

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses 1-year of experience that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have experience in planning and coordinating all matters pertaining to supply, organizational maintenance, troop movements, logistic readiness, services, and miscellaneous logistic support of the command and its subordinate elements?


2a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


3.
Do you have experience in overseeing, coordinating, and administering the logistic functions of the subordinate elements by developing and issuing policy guidance on logistic matters including receipt, storage, issue, turn-in, in-storage maintenance of supplies, property accountability, supply economy, supply discipline, troop movements and billeting for training exercises, etc?


3a.
Explain how you have experience with the above statement.


4.
Your response to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documents are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/ or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙