Position Title
Financial Management Analyst
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13069687M-CFN-0501-7T9 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION GS-07: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience applying an understanding of cross-functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned program to conduct simple reviews and studies/projects.
Experience assisting higher graded specialist in the use of analytical and evaluative methods in order to assess and measure program operations effectiveness.
Experience assisting in the use of technical methods and practices such as program analysis, process analysis, management reporting procedures and available system capabilities in order to carry out limited projects and to develop simple management information reports.
Experience recognizing tax issues that impact assigned programs and drawing valid conclusions.
Experience using oral and written communications to exchange information, prepare reports, explain program differences, and recommend improvements and/or corrective actions.
OR
EDUCATION: You may qualify based on education as follows:
One (1) year of graduate level education at an accredited college or university in a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR
Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) may be met by having a Bachelor's degree, with one of the following: A GPA of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last two years of study, or a GPA of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last two years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
OR
COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to the amount required.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION GS-09: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service.
Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience applying Internal Revenue Service (IRS) functions, programs, policies, regulations, procedures, and operations to evaluate program plans and determine impact of changes on program goals.
Experience working with cross-functional programs and their interrelationship with assigned programs to conduct pre-selected reviews and studies/projects.
Experience using analytical and evaluative methods to assess and measure program operations effectiveness, identify gaps, consolidate findings, and recommend alternatives.
Experience using technical methods and practices such as program analysis, process analysis, management reporting procedures and available system capabilities to resolve operating problems and provide statistical data or other management information reports.
Experience recognizing financial issues that impact assigned programs and making recommendations.
Experience using oral and written communication skills to exchange information, prepare reports, explain program differences, and recommend improvements and/or corrective actions.
OR
EDUCATION: You may qualify based on education as follows:
A master's or equivalent graduate degree in a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR
Two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a related field of study that demonstrated the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
OR
LL.B. or J.D., if related.
OR
COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:  A combination of qualifying graduate education and experience equivalent to the amount required.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION GS-07: Which of the following is true about your education and/or specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have at least one (1) full year of graduate level education as described above.
 I meet at least one (1) of the Superior Academic Achievement requirements as described above.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/EDUCATION GS-09: Which of the following is true about your education and/or specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above.
 I have a master’s or equivalent graduate degree as described above.
 I have two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate as described above.
 I have a LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I have a combination of graduate level education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement(s) from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


3.
Which of the following best describes your experience gathering financial systems data and organizing the results for review by management?

 Worked on a team to complete this task.
 Worked with a coworker to complete this task.
 Independently performed this task with direction from a supervisor or senior employee.
 Independently performed this task as a regular or semi-regular part of my job.
 None of the above.


4.
Which of the following describes your contribution to the workplace?

 A. Developed methods to improve efficiency to share with workgroup or team.
 B. Assisted in the development of procedures that were adopted as Best Practices.
 C. Served on special projects (e.g., financial system implementation, task forces).
 D. Led a team or workgroup within my program area or Business Unit.
 E. Led a team or workgroup composed of members from other program areas or Business Units.
 F. Served on and coordinated the activities of a cross-functional team to resolve a service-wide issue.
 G. None of the above.


5.
Which one of the following activities have you performed that best demonstrates your experience with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) business units, programs, and functions?
 Identified points of contact to resolve customer issues.
 Consulted with other Business Units to obtain guidance and/or information.
 Collaborated with other Business Units to resolve issues.
 None of the above.


6.
Which of the following rule(s), regulation(s), and procedure(s) have you used to perform your duties?

 A. Implementation of configuration changes in financial systems.
 B. Testing business process in financial systems.
 C. Analyzing and reconciling large volumes of financial or similar data.
 D. None of the above.


7.
Which of the following describes your highest level of experience resolving technical/procedural issues?
 Identified and elevated a technical/procedural issue for resolution.
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue and recommended a solution for the issue.
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented within the Business Unit.
 Identified and analyzed a technical/procedural issue and recommended a solution for the issue that was implemented across Business units (e.g., Wage & Investment (W&I)/Taxpayer Services (TS), Small Business/Self Employed Commissioner (SB/SE), Large Business and International (LB&I) Division, etc.).
 None of the above.


8.
To which of the following groups have you explained financial management laws and regulations and/or processes?
 A. Outside consultants and programmers.
 B. External stakeholders (e.g., Government Accountability Office (GAO), Tax Administration (TIGTA), other agencies, Contractors).
 C. Internal stakeholders (e.g., other business units, coworkers, managers).
 D. Senior management or executive leadership.
 E. None of the above.


9.
Which of the following document(s) have you written?
 A. Correspondence (memos, letters).
 B. Internal procedures, desk guides.
 C. System requirements (e.g., Unified Work Request [UWR], change requests).
 D. Technical guidance (e.g., Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ), Job Aids, training materials).
 E. Policy Statements.
 F. Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) (written input or change); Interim Guidance, Delegation Orders.
 G. White papers (e.g., briefing papers, proposals, decision documents).
 H. Draft communications on behalf of a senior manager or an Executive (e.g., TIGTA, GAO).
 I. Periodic program status updates to the management team.
 J. None of the above.


10.
Indicate your level of experience delivering presentations.

 A. Presented information to teammates or peers in a team meeting.
 B. Led meetings with representatives across business units.
 C. Briefed management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 D. Briefed external/cross functional stakeholders (e.g., other federal or state agencies) on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 E. Briefed executives/senior management on status updates, problems or issues, or policies and procedures.
 F. None of the above.


11.
Which of the following best describes your level of expertise with Federal agency financial systems?
 Used Systems, Applications, and Products (SAP), Enterprise Central Component (ECC) or High-Performance Analytic Appliance (HANA) for federal financial accounting.
 Implementation of configuration changes in SAP.
 Testing business process in SAP.
 Subject matter expert when it comes to Federal financial accounting.
 None of the above.


12.
Which of the following best describes your experience working on projects?

 Served as a technical expert or team-member for a project.
 Served as a coordinator of a process (e.g., testing financial systems, payroll, financial systems security).
 Served as sub-team lead of a project.
 Managed a project.
 Managed multiple projects simultaneously.
 None of the above.


13.
Which of the following computer applications/programs and/or automated systems have you used to complete your work?
 A. Share Point to manage projects (e.g., assign tasks, share documents).
 B. Integrated Financial System (IFS) or Redesign Revenue Accounting Control System (RRACS), Concur, MoveLINQ research transactions, or review reports.
 C. Lexis Nexis or Westlaw to research financial laws and regulations.
 D. Business Objects to retrieve data.
 E. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars, Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) Standards, and Treasury guidance regarding financial accounting and reporting.
 F. Arbortext to maintain and update Internal Revenue Manuals (IRMs).
 G. Work Request Management System (WRMS) to research, submit, or review work requests.
 H. Microsoft Excel to create and/or edit pivot tables, formulas, or macros; perform statistical analysis; or import/export data.
 I. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS), Automated Offer in Compromise (AOIC), Integrated Collection System (ICS), and/or Account Management Services (AMS) for research and verification.
 J. None of the above.


14.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙