Position Title
Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-CC-DH-26-12799028 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Friday, December 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI), GS-0647-11 position at our agency. For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience, training, or ability. For the purposes of this assessment, an expert is a person, through education and experience, who has a comprehensive and authoritative knowledge of or skill in a particular area.



1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the basic qualification requirements for a Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI), GS-0647-11 position as described in the Qualification Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in 42 CFR Part 75; that is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education; AND I am currently certified as a radiographer in my field as evidenced by my active State or national license which is in good standing.
 I have been employed by the Federal Government in a Radiologic position after January 13, 1986 and have (a) received training from institutions in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not accredit training in that particular field at the time of graduation, or (b) practiced in a State or foreign jurisdiction that did not license that particular field or did not allow special eligibility to take a licensure examination for those who did not graduate from an accredited educational program, AND I had additional training and experience in this field.
 I have been employed by the Federal Government in a Radiologic position prior to January 13, 1986 as evidenced by my current or fully satisfactory performance or certification from a licensed practitioner such as a doctor of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who prescribes radiologic procedures to others.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


2.
In addition to meeting one of the Basic Qualification Requirements listed above, please choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the additional qualification requirements for a Lead Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (MRI), GS-0647-11 position as described in the Qualification Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-10 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector performing the following types of tasks: leading and mentoring MRI staff members; monitoring the operation and performance of radiographic equipment and other related computer software/hardware; training staff on the proper uses and methods associated with imaging; maintaining and evaluating image quality standards of all MRI procedures; evaluating the effectiveness of the current diagnostic radiology practices and making recommendations for improvement.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


3.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application.

I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment.

I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information.

Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙