Position Title
Concessions Management Specialist - FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-1547-JOTR-13027698-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 05, 2026 to Aug 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
As part of the official duties of this position, the incumbent is required to operate a Government vehicle. As such, applicants are required to have a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.

Please note: you will be required to submit a Motor Vehicle Operator's License and Driving Record. You must also submit (within a State sealed envelope or submitted directly by the State authorities), and at your own expense, all certified driving records from all States that disclose all valid driver's licenses, whether current or past, possessed by you.

Please chose the best response option regarding your license status.
 I have a valid State-issued Driver's License.
 I will be able to obtain a valid State-issued Driver's License prior to the closing date of the job announcement.
 I do NOT have a valid State-issued Driver's License and unable to obtain one prior to the closing date of the announcement. By selecting this option, I acknowledge that I do not meet this requirement and will be marked ineligible.


3.
Credit will be given for all appropriate qualifying experience. To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST clearly indicate the nature of the duties and responsibilities for each position, starting and ending dates of employment (MUST include beginning and ending month/year e.g., 5/2019-10/2019 or 5/10/2019-10/20/2019), and the resume must reflect full and/or part-time or total number of hours worked (i.e., work 40+ hours a week, rather than indicating full-time). If part-time, the exact hours must be annotated to be able to pro-rate the amount of qualified specialized experience.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.
 No, I have not provided this information in my resume/application. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my resume/application.


4.
To qualify based on education, you must submit a legible copy of transcripts from an accredited institution with your name, school name, credit hours, course level, major(s), and grade-point average or class ranking. Transcripts do not need to be official, but if you are selected for this position and you used your education to qualify, you must provide official transcripts before you begin work.

If you are using education completed in foreign colleges or universities to meet qualification requirements, you must show that your education credentials have been evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs and such education has been deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit has been given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university.
 Yes, I certify that I have read and understood this requirement; and I have provided this information with my application package if applicable. I understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.
 No, I do not certify and understand that I may be disqualified if I do not provide the required information as part of my application package.


5.
This is a Career-Seasonal position and subject to release and recall procedures. A permanent career-seasonal position includes all the benefits of permanent employment but does not provide employment on a full year-round basis. As such, the selectee will be in a non-pay/non-duty status for 2 weeks/ 1 pay period in early August during their first service year in this position.

After their first service year, Career Seasonal employees are guaranteed to work at least 6 months per year, but not more than 50 weeks per year. An employment agreement is required and can be changed annually. Are you willing to accept a permanent, career seasonal position?
 Yes
 No


6.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring vicinity is defined as permanent residency within San Bernardino or Riverside Counties, California. 

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Concessions Management Specialist, GS-1101-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service. Specialized experience includes: 1) responding verbally or in writing to inquiries or complaints pertaining to commercial use authorizations or concession operations (i.e. rules and regulations, appropriate formats and provisions of authorization or concession contracts, and the status of applications or correspondence); 2) assisting in the administration of a commercial services program (concessions, commercial use authorizations, leases); 3) organizing and analyzing numerical information, maintaining organizational, office and project records; 4) assisting in tracking or evaluating commercial use authorization holder or concessioner performance; and 5) assisting in the preparation of reports, fact sheets, and correspondence on commercial use authorization or concession-related issues and information. You must include hours worked in your resume.
 I have successfully completed at least one full academic year (18 semester hours or 27 quarter hours) of graduate level education, or possess a master's or higher degree, e.g., LL.B., J.D., LL.M., Ph.D., with a major in business administration, economics, marketing, finance, or other position-related fields, which provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. You must submit a copy of your transcripts; transcripts do not need to be official.
 I have a directly related bachelor's degree AND Superior Academic Achievement. Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on (1) class standing, (2) grade-point average, or (3) honor society membership. (1) Class standing--Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses. (2) Grade-point average (G.P.A.)--Applicants must have a grade-point average of: (A) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (B) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; OR (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society. Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies. These honor societies are listed in the Association of College Honor Societies: Booklet of Information (1992-95) and/or Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities (1991). Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision. You must submit a copy of your transcripts; transcripts do not need to be official.
 I have not completed one full year of specialized experience as described in 1A above or the one year of graduate study in a field directly-related to the work of this position as shown in 1B above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. For example, I have 6 months of the specialized experience described above (50% of the experience requirement), and 9 semester hours of directly-related graduate level college study in an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education). You must submit a copy of your transcripts; transcripts do not need to be official.
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above requirements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience or education requirements for a Concessions Management Specialist (CUA Coordinator), GS-1101-09 position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience includes: 1) preparing correspondence, briefing statements, reports, and/or other written communication relating to commercial and special uses; 2) providing information such as the status of various solicitations, required formats and provisions of contracts, procedures to be followed in competing for concessions contracts or applying for permits and the status of correspondence; 3) reviewing and analyzing information related to concession operations, including operation costs and revenues, staffing levels, size of operation, and fulfillment of contractual financial obligations; and 4) conducting inspections of commercial operations for operational deficiencies, safety violations, and condition assessments of equipment and/or facilities. You must include hours worked in your resume.
 I have two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree, with a major in business administration, economics, marketing, finance, or other position-related fields, which provided me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. (Eighteen semester hours or 27 quarter hours or the number of credit hours the school attended has determined to represent 1 year of full-time study is considered to be equal to 1 full year of graduate education.) You must submit a copy of your transcripts; transcripts do not need to be official.
 I have not completed one full year of specialized experience as described in 2A above or the 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree in a field directly-related to the work of this position as shown in 2B above, but I have an equivalent combination of such education and experience. (Note: Only graduate education in excess of the first year (18 semester hours) is creditable toward meeting the experience requirement when combining experience and education.) You must submit a copy of your transcripts; transcripts do not need to be official.
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙