Position Title
HEAVY MOBILE EQUIPMENT MECHANIC (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-12405974-AF (Title 32) Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, November 17, 2025 to Wednesday, December 17, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Answer each question to the best of your ability and knowledge. Responses will be verified against your Resume and may be adjusted based on the results of your application review.


1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.
 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member OR former member of another component.
 I am currently NOT a member of the Texas National Guard, BUT I am eligible and willing to gain membership in the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently NOT a member of the Texas National Guard, AND I am ineligible and unwilling to gain membership in the Texas National Guard.


2.
Are you an E4/SrA Not to Exceed E5/SSgt?
 Yes, I am a E4/SrA Not to Exceed E5/SSgt
 No, I am not a E4/SrA Not to Exceed E5/SSgt BUT I am eligible and willing to join the Texas National Guard in the rank of E4/SrA Not to Exceed E5/SSgt.
 No, I am not a E4/SrA Not to Exceed E5/SSgt AND I am ineligible and unwilling to join the Texas National Guard


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? Or are you eligible and able to complete the MOS qualifications and requirements to fall within the listed Compatible Military Assignment by the date of your appointment?
AFSC: 2T331/2T351/2T371/2T3X1A/2T3X1C
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have experience or training leading to a thorough knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment, AND knowledge of electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, and other non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of mechanical systems, AND knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls, AND basic knowledge of electronics, sufficient to identify and replace defective components, such as sensors, diodes, and circuit boards, AND ability to repair or overhaul major components such as diesel, multi-fuel or gasoline engines, turbine engines, automatic and manual transmissions, drive line assemblies, electrical and electronic systems and accessories, fuel injection systems, and emission control systems?
 Yes
 No


5.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance, or are you able to acquire and maintain a Secret security clearance within the first year of employment?

 Yes
 No


7.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙