Position Title
FUEL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM WORKER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
TX-13052784-AF Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current member of the state National Guard for which this position is being advertised, or are you willing and eligible to become a member?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
What is your current Federal Technician or Military status? Please make an appropriate choice.

 I am currently a Permanent, Indefinite, or Temporary Federal Technician with the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a traditional member of the Texas National Guard.
 I am currently a member of another component.
 I am a former member of another component.
 I am a civilian willing and eligible to join the Texas National Guard.
 I am a civilian unwilling and ineligible to join the Texas National Guard.


2.
Are you an SrA Not to exceed SSgt? Members of another branch of service, or prior service members should ensure they are eligible and willing to join the Texas National Guard between the ranks of SrA Not to exceed SSgt Civilians without prior service should respond "No".

 Yes, I am a SrA Not to exceed SSgt.
 No, I am not one of these ranks, BUT I am eligible and willing to join the Texas National Guard in the rank of SrA Not to exceed SSgt.
 No, I am not one of these ranks, and I am NOT eligible or willing to join the Texas National Guard in the rank of SrA Not to exceed SSgt.


3.
Do you currently have a Secret security clearance with positive NACI? Are you eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance with positive NACI within one year of appointment?

 I have a Secret security clearance with positive NACI.
 I am eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance with positive NACI within one year of appointment and understand that I must submit to a background investigation in order to acquire this security clearance.
 I am either not eligible to obtain a Secret security clearance with positive NACI within one year of appointment due to knowledge that I would not pass a background investigation, or I am not willing to submit for a background investigation and understand that this will remove me from consideration for this vacancy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have  experience or training which demonstrates Experience or training operating, maintaining, repairing, troubleshooting, and overhauling fuel systems and components. Experience or training initiating and controlling the movement and storage of fuel supplies by operating high pressure systems with a series of terminals connected by cross-country pipelines or multi-fuel storage and distribution facilities connected by a network of internal pipelines?
 Yes
 No


5.
For positions requiring the operation of motor vehicles, candidates must have a valid state driver's license for the state in which they live or are principally employed. Do you meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


6.
Your responses in this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency, if selected. Review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


7.
Do you currently possess one of the following primary or secondary Compatible Military Assignments? For Dual-Status Technician positions service affiliation under Title 32 USC 709 is required. Military skill set is determined by AFSC/MOS requirements. Upon selection, individuals must be assigned to a compatible military AFSC/MOS per statutes and National Guard Bureau regulations and must obtain/maintain all requirements of the AFSC/MOS.

AFSC: 2F031-2F051
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙