Position Title
School Information Assistant (Office Automation)
Agency
Department of Defense Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-12840191-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, November 26, 2025 to Friday, December 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) Civilian Employees

Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. (Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1"); OR

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA). You must submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflecting current DoDEA Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current DoDEA employee as described in one of the categories above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Permanent Department of Defense (DoD) Civilian Employee

You are eligible in this category if you currently work on a permanent* competitive service civilian appointment in any of the following Department of Defense (DOD) agencies:

• U.S. Navy
• U.S. Marine Corps
• Department of the Air Force
• Department of the Army
• Other Department of Defense Agency (e.g., WHS, DLA, DFAS, DISA, DODEA, Defense Commissary, etc.)

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1"). To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note(s):
*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category unless you are serving on a Flexible Length Renewable Term (FLRT) Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category

Are you a Current Permanent Department of Defense (DoD) Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Excepted Service Overseas Family Member Appointment

Do you meet the following? You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a spouse, or unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, and foster child) under the age of 23 who:Resides with a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or a U.S. citizen employee of a U.S. Government Agency (including non-appropriated fund activities) whose duty station is in the foreign area: AND, is in one of the following categories:

Have lost your eligibility for MSP or FMP due to declination or acceptance of a continuing position in the local commuting area; or
Are not eligible under FMP as the family member of a locally hired civilian or NAF employee whose duty station is in a foreign location; or
Are currently occupying an excepted service Schedule A family member appointment with a DoD agency other than the Department of Defense Education Activity; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station.

NOTE: Family members of contractor employees are NOT eligible for an overseas family member appointment.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting:
A copy of your sponsor's permanent change of station orders, including:
- a statement authorizing you (the spouse/family member) to accompany your sponsor to the permanent duty station,
- the specific location to which the sponsor is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and
- the effective date of the permanent change of station
Verification of the relationship (i.e., marriage certificate, certificate of live birth, etc.)
If your sponsor was locally hired in the overseas area, a statement from the local Human Resources office verifying you are the authorized dependent.
If you are currently employed by the federal government in an excepted service Schedule A family member position in an overseas location, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 either a "0" or "3" AND block 34 should reflect a "2."

Are you eligible for an Excepted Service Overseas Family Member Appointment?
 Yes
 No


5.
Family Member Preference (FMP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a spouse, or unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, and foster child) under the age of 23 who:
Resides with a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or a U.S. citizen employee of a U.S. Government Agency (including non-appropriated fund activities) whose duty station is in the foreign area: AND
Have not accepted or declined a permanent position or a temporary position of one year or longer at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station
**NOTE: This preference does not apply to family members of locally hired civilian employees.

Supporting documentation: Youmust submit:
Acopy of the sponsor's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse/family member to accompany the sponsor to the permanent duty station, the specific location to which the sponsor is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station, and
Verification of the relationship (i.e., marriage certificate, certificate of live birth, etc.).

Are you eligible for Family Member Preference for Overseas Employment?
 Yes
 No


6.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application:

• A copy of your agency notice; AND,
• A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,
• A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.

Are you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?
 Yes
 No


7.
Military Spouse Preference (MSP) for Overseas Employment

You are eligible for this hiring category if you are the spouse of an active duty U.S. Armed Forces service member and you meet the following conditions:
 
You and the sponsor were married prior to the relocation (before the Permanent Change of Station (PCS)); AND,
You have arrived at the overseas duty station identified on the PCS orders; AND,
Since the relocation, you have not accepted or declined a permanent position at the new duty station of the sponsor; AND,
You are among the best qualified; AND,
Position you are applying to, is within the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station

**NOTE: Preference can be granted only once per PCS relocation. Once you accept or decline a position, either appropriated fund (AF) or non-appropriated fund (NAF) at the new duty station, your eligibility for preference terminates whether or not preference was applied.

CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE FAMILY MEMBER APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who are currently assigned to an excepted service Schedule A family member position at an overseas location, and the position applying to is in the same commuting area as sponsor's permanent duty station. If you are eligible in this category, you also need to include a copy of your most recent SF-50 reflecting in block 24 a "3" AND block 34 reflecting a "2."

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of the service member's permanent change of station orders, including a statement authorizing the spouse to accompany the member to the permanent duty station (if the spouse is not listed on the orders, then a command sponsorship letter must be submitted), the specific location to which the member is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and the effective date of the permanent change of station; AND verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage).

Are you eligible for Military Spouse Preference for Overseas Employment?

 Yes
 No


8.
Non-Department of Defense (DoD) Transfer

This category includes competitive service, career or career-conditional employees of federal agencies other than the Department of Defense (e.g., Dept of Labor, VA). 

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1").

*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.

Are you applying to transfer from a federal agency other than the DoD?
 Yes
 No


9.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙