Position Title
Benefits Specialist
Agency
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
Announcement Number
FRTIB-26-025-DE-13042938-SB Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:

you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy AND 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you eligible for appointment under the Excepted Service authority (Schedule A) for Individuals with intellectual disabilities, severe physical disabilities or psychiatric disabilities? [5CFR 213.3102(u)]
 Yes
 No


5.

Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and you:

have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more OR
retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more

If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. Please also provide the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

 Yes
 No


6.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


7.
Are you currently serving or have you served under a Political Appointment in the Federal Government within the last five (5) years?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE INSTRUCTIONS

Specialized experience is expertise that prepared you to do the work of the job for which you are applying.  It must be equal to at least the next lower grade level in this line of work.
We can only credit experience you clearly describe in your resume.  This experience can come from a federal, state, local, or private sector job, or military service.  Education or training alone does not count, you must show that you actually performed the duties described in each question below.
We prorate part-time and intermittent work based on a 2,087-hour full-time work year. For example, if you worked 20 hours a week (half-time) for one year, we credit you with six months of full-time experience. You must list the hours you worked per week for each job on your resume. If you don't list your hours, we cannot credit that period of experience.
You must meet all of the specialized experience statements below to qualify for this position.  If your resume does not support one or more statements, you will be found not qualified, even if you meet the other statements.
Review your resume before you answer the questions below.  Make sure it clearly shows the experience needed to support your answers.


1.
GS-13 Specialized Experience Self-Assessment Question

In order to be qualified for this position, candidates must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to or higher than the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience is defined as:
 
Administering retirement benefits or retirement savings programs by interpreting policies, regulations, or plan provisions to resolve participant, customer, or stakeholder issues.
Evaluating the operational effectiveness of an assigned benefits program, service delivery function, or external service provider (including contractors and vendors) by analyzing performance data against established or self-developed performance measures, in order to identify deficiencies, determine root causes, and recommend corrective actions or program improvements to management.
Analyzing program, operational, or benefits-related issues to develop recommendations that improved service delivery, policy implementation, or program effectiveness.
Developing policies, procedures, guidance, reports, or recommendations to communicate program requirements and support organizational decision-making.

Select the response that best describes your experience:
 Yes, I possess at least one-year specialized experience equivalent to or higher than the GS-12 grade level described above. My resume demonstrates equivalent experience, and I have included the hours worked for each period of service to verify that I have one year or more of full-time experience.
 No, I do not possess the specialized experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙