Position Title
Program and Policy Analyst
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NOS OCM-26-12955280-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a Program and Policy Analyst, ZA-0301-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Interpreting or applying policies, guidance, or regulation for coastal and ocean management programs; and Participating in developing or drafting policies, guidance, or directives for coastal or ocean programs or projects.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
When a federal government agency issues a permit for a large-scale industrial project in a sensitive environment what is the most responsible way to handle environmental concerns?

 Allowing the company to use any method they choose as long as it is the most profitable for the economy.
 Creating a tracking system that records how much material is produced.
 Directing the company self-report their progress without baseline scientific studies or independent oversight.
 Evaluating environmental impacts through an environmental impact statement.


2.
A commercial entity has submitted a formal application for a deep-sea mineral commercial recovery permit under DSHMRA. As a policy analyst, you are tasked with developing the necessary documentation for interagency consultation and ensuring the administrative record is sufficient for final approval. Which action is most critical for ensuring the "administrative record" supports a legally defensible permit issuance?

 Documenting all initial input, research, and tracking of interagency comments to justify specific permit terms and conditions.
 Focusing exclusively on the applicant's financial projections to ensure the project’s economic viability under DSHMRA.
 Drafting a memo that waives environmental compliance requirements if the recovery area is beyond 200 nautical miles.
 Limiting interagency consultation to those agencies that have provided funding for deep-sea research.


3.
A state coastal management agency submits a request to the NOAA Office for Coastal Management to approve the incorporation of a change to its federally approved coastal management program. The proposed change involves adopting a new, legally binding state regulation that requires all new shoreline developments to use "living shorelines" rather than hardened structures, with the goal of strengthening coastal resilience. As the reviewing policy analyst, which of the following approaches best ensures that this change meets the approval criteria under the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA)?

 Approve the change immediately because it strengthens coastal resilience and fits within the coastal hazards priority area, ignoring the need for public comment to maximize efficiency.
 Analyze the submission to ensure the policy is legally binding under state law and otherwise meets the requirements for an “enforceable policy,” check that it does not conflict with CZMA national interest objectives, and ensure it is properly documented and processed within the required timelines.
 Reject the amendment because changing from hardened structures to living shorelines constitutes a significant, non-reversible change to land use regulations that is likely to conflict with federal consistency reviews.
 Recommend that the state instead use funding to implement the policy voluntarily, rather than amending their approved program, to avoid the formal NOAA review process.


4.
You are supporting the review of a DSHMRA application for a deep-seabed exploration permit. The applicant's proposed activity is intended to secure critical minerals to support national defense and energy transition, aligning with E.O. 14285, "Unleashing America's Offshore Critical Minerals and Resources." However, environmental NGOs have expressed strong opposition due to potential impacts.

You are drafting a one-page briefing memo and preparing oral talking points that will be used in a briefing for NOAA leadership regarding the final recommendation to approve the application. Which approach best demonstrates the ability to create an effective communication strategy for this briefing?

 Focus entirely on the legal compliance of the application, emphasizing that the technical, financial, and scientific requirements are met, and advising the NOAA leadership to ignore environmental concerns as they are outside the scope of DSHMRA.
 Emphasize the national security and critical mineral supply chain security benefits, cite the "expedited process" mandate from E.O. 14285 and the recent changes NOAA made to the DSHMRA regulations for a consolidated application process, and provide targeted mitigation measures to address environmental risks.
 Recommend a pause in the application to conduct a three-year environmental impact study, ensuring maximum compliance with international public opinion, and issue a press release stating that national security is a secondary issue to the potential impacts.
 Focus the briefing materials entirely on the potential economic revenue for the U.S. government, using data on current hard mineral prices, and delegating the environmental and legal aspects to other offices within the agency.


5.
You are preparing a briefing for NOAA leadership regarding proposed changes to regulations under the CZMA. These changes aim to streamline federal consistency reviews but have received pushback from several state coastal management programs due to potential limitations on their statutory authority.

Which of the following approaches best demonstrates the ability to provide effective, high-level written and oral communication regarding this rulemaking?

 Prepare a 50-page technical memo detailing every public comment received, followed by a verbatim reading of the memo during the briefing to ensure accuracy.
 Develop a concise executive summary focusing on the policy and legal ramifications of the states’ assertions, prepare a "Q&A" document anticipating leadership questions on state concerns, and present a brief, focused summary highlighting risks and mitigation strategies.
 Draft a legal brief focusing primarily on the statutory interpretation of the CZMA, and in the briefing, focus on technical legal definitions to demonstrate expertise in administrative law.
 Send an email to leadership notifying them of the pushback, suggest waiting for the final rule for a briefing.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.
I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙