Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Small Business Administration
Announcement Number
IMP-26-DPPPPD-12928884 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you meet the following criteria for Competitive Merit Promotion eligibility:
I am a current Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service To be eligible you must have least one year Time In Grade (TIG) at the next lower grade level, or higher, from the position to which you are applying.;
I am a former Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service.
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field--block 24--is "1" or "2"); and
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field--block 34--is "1")
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you currently or have you previously occupied a permanent position in which the full performance level (FPL) is equivalent to the FPL of the position being advertised?

i.e., to be eligible for NonCompetitive consideration to a position being advertised at the GS-09, with an FPL of a GS-12, you must have previously held one of the following:
GS-09 with an FPL of GS-12
GS-11 with an FPL of GS-12
GS-12 - 15
To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status and full performance level. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• career or career-conditional (Tenure field--block 24--is "1" or "2");
• status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field--block 34--is "1"); AND,
• full performance level (equivalent to the FPL of the position being advertised).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
• have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR,
• are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. You must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have a severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability that qualifies you for a Schedule A Disability appointment?
For more information, review USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide appropriate medical documentation, i.e., a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist stating your condition and restrictions.
 Yes
 No


5.

Is there another type of eligibility not identified above which you would like to be considered? If so, please indicate it below. (NOTE: If you did not appropriately answer the eligibility questions above, your response to this question will not give you consideration through any of the previously listed eligibilities.)



The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


10.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


11.
Retired Federal Government employees in receipt of an annuity under CSRS or FERS who return to Federal civilian service are considered reemployed annuitants if their annuity continues during reemployment. In order to ensure that all benefits and entitlements are processed correctly and that proper notifications to OPM are made, we require up front disclosure of your status as a reemployed annuitant.
 I am a former civilian employee of the Federal Government or District of Columbia who is receiving, or meets the legal requirements and has filed claim for, an annuity under either CSRS or FERS based on that service.
 I am NOT a former civilian employee of the Federal Government or District of Columbia who is receiving, or meets the legal requirements and has filed claim for, an annuity under either CSRS or FERS based on that service.


12.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. 6501 Sylvan Rd., Suite 122, Citrus Heights, CA
 B. 409 3rd St., SW, Washington, DC
 C. 101 Marietta ST. NW, Suite 700, Atlanta, GA
 D. 130 S. Elmwood Ave., Suite 516, Buffalo, NY
 E. 14925 Kingsport Rd, Fort Worth, TX


Current SBA/Disaster Employee
1.
Are you a current SBA/Disaster employee?
 Yes
 No


Prior SBA/Disaster Employee
1.
Have you previously worked for SBA/Disaster?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume, and other relevant documents you submit, as well as through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. The following questions will be used to determine your minimum qualifications for this position.


1.
This vacancy is only open to current SBA, competitive service, career, or career-conditional employees, OR current SBA employees, regardless of status, that are eligible for a non-competitive hiring authority such as Schedule A, individuals with disabilities, 30% disabled veteran, etc. Please review the responses below and select the response that best applies to you.
 I am a current SBA, competitive service, career, or career-conditional employee. You MUST submit an SF-50, Notice of Personnel Action, that reflects your current employment with the SBA; tenure "1" or "2" in block 24; and "1" in block 34 to support this response.
 I am a current SBA employee, who is eligible under a non-competitive hiring authority, such as Schedule A, 30% disabled veteran, etc.
 I do not meet either of the above statements.


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the GS-13 Program Analyst. Make sure your resume supports the response that you select. Mark only 1 response.
 I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent in difficulty and complexity to the GS-12 level in the Federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skill, and abilities to perform successfully in this position. This experience may have been gained in a Federal or non-Federal service position. This specialized experience must demonstrate the following: *Interpreting laws, regulations, or policies and providing guidance on how these impact disaster programs; AND *Analyzing individuals' and businesses’ finances with uncertain economic abilities; AND *Preparing analytical reports, briefings, or planning documents for senior leadership; AND *Conducting research and analyzing trends to propose alternative strategies or solutions to improve program effectiveness; AND *Evaluating disaster program effectiveness and recommending improvements to increase mission performance.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


As previously explained, your responses in this Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) Understand this warning; 2) Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.


3.
Failure to agree to the statement above will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


NOTE: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans' preference documentation, assessment questions and answers, and SF 50s) is accurate and received by the agency.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙