Position Title
AIRCRAFT FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12899028-AR-26-035 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 19, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of CW2 - CW5 or O1 - O4?
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of CW2 - CW5.
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades O1 - O4.
 No. I am not a Warrant Officer or Officer in the grades of CW2 - CW5 or O1 - O4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


4.
Do you possess current certification to pilot the following aircraft: LUH-72 and /or CH-47?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all question truthfully and to the best of your ability.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Do you possess a Federal Aviation Administration pilot certificate

-OR-

appropriate military certifications, military ratings in the main-frame military aircraft of employment.

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a current Commercial Pilot Certificate or the appropriate military rating; both meet the intent of the requirement. If an agency decides, for example, not to accept the military rating, the rationale for the decision should be based upon the requirements of the position and should be thoroughly described in agency operating material. For flight instructor positions, the FAA Flight Instructor Certificate or the military equivalent rating is also required. The pilot certificate must include the rating(s) appropriate to the work of the position to be filled. For example, a position that involves flying a multi-engine airplane to various destinations under instrument flight rules would require the Commercial Pilot Certificate with the airplane, multi-engine, and instrument ratings or appropriate U.S. military ratings. Positions that require flying or instructing in flying both airplanes and helicopters require a rating in both categories. Only those ratings necessary to perform the work are required.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants must demonstrate the following specialized experience competencies (skills, knowledge, and abilities) to qualify for appointments to GS-2181-13 Army National Guard Dual Status Officer positions. Must have working experiences in civilian aviation programs; or, military service aviation programs (active duty or reserve components); or, in the Army National Guard Aviation Support facilities. Experienced in piloting and instructing pilot skills in one or more of the following main-frame/military aircraft: Fixed-wing, rotary, or remotely piloted aircraft (RPA). Abilities to train and instruct others in the piloting of a main-frame military aircraft. Experienced in mission tasking, intelligence reporting, and applying weather information. Experienced in supervising and/or filing of flight plans and conducting crew briefings. Experienced in aircraft preflight inspections, aircraft loading, equipment assessments, and mission manning. Experienced in operating aircraft controls and equipment. Experienced in performing or supervising the work procedures involved in navigation, in-flight refueling; search and rescue operations; or surveillance and reconnaissance. Ability to conduct or supervise the training of crew members in simple to complex mission specific tasks. Experienced in developing plans and policies, monitoring operations, and advising commanders. Experienced in flight theory, air navigation, meteorology, flying directives, aircraft operating procedures, and mission tactics. Must have at least two years experiences in instructing others in a specific air-frame/military aircraft. Competent to complete various piloting administrative tasks performed in support of Army National Guard aviation programs. Skilled to instruct others to pilot military aircraft on a regular and recurring basis. Do you possess these specialized experiences?
 Yes
 No


4.

Describe a time when you planned and implemented a complex flight training program for rated pilots or instructor pilots. In your response, detail the specific needs of the individuals you were training, the instructional techniques you used (such as advanced instrument flight, instruction on methods of instruction, or training in advanced helicopters), and how you evaluated the pilots' proficiency and readiness to remain in flight status.



5.

Provide an example of a training flight you conducted that involved a substantial degree of hazard. Describe the scenario, including the techniques required (such as tactical flying at night, use of night vision devices, evasive maneuvers, or emergency procedures over hazardous terrain), and explain how you managed the risks while ensuring the pilot mastered the required skills.



6.

This role may requires instructing other pilots on how to be effective flight instructors. Describe a situation where you were responsible for training and evaluating an instructor pilot's proficiency. How did you assess their teaching methods, their ability to provide constructive feedback, and their overall effectiveness in the cockpit and classroom? What was the most challenging aspect of this evaluation, and what was the outcome?



7.

Describe a specific instance where you instructed a pilot through a complex emergency procedure involving a critical system malfunction, such as a loss of directional control or a complete hydraulic system failure over hazardous terrain. In your response, detail the step-by-step technical guidance and control inputs you provided during the maneuver. How did you assess the pilot's ability to execute these procedures, and how did that specific performance weigh into your overall evaluation of their proficiency and fitness to fly?



8.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙