Position Title
Deputy Assistant Secretary
Agency
Department of Education - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
CCTM-26-13008020-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch?
 Yes
 No


2.

Are you currently serving in the Senior Executive Service or a former career SES eligible for reinstatement under 5 CFR 317.702?  Applicants must provide documentation supporting their eligibility (e.g., SF50 showing career SES appointment/status.)

Types of SES Appointments:

Career: An individual appointed through SES merit staffing and certification of his/her executive core qualifications by an OPM administered Qualifications Review Board (QRB) or subsequently reassigned, transferred, or reinstated based on prior QRB certification and career service.
Noncareer and limited appointments: Competitive procedures are not required to make non-career and limited appointments.
Limited Term: An individual appointed under a nonrenewable appointment for a term of 3 years or less to a position of a project nature.
Limited Emergency: An individual appointed under a nonrenewable appointment not to exceed 18 months to meet a bona fide, unanticipated, urgent need.
Noncareer: An individual who is not a career appointee, a limited term appointee, or limited emergency appointee. Agencies may make SES noncareer appointments to general (not career reserve) SES positions.  5 CFR 317

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you meet one of the following Non-Competitive Hiring Eligibilities:
Current Career member of the Senior Executive Service (meaning you are serving in a Career Reserve SES position or that you are serving in a General SES position and your Executive Core Qualifications (ECQ's) have been certified by a Qualifications Review Board of the Office of Personnel Management), SF-50 required
Graduate of an Office of Personnel Management certified Candidate Development Program (please submit a copy of your certification)  
SES reinstatement eligible (This means that you were previously employed as a Career SES member and that you completed your one year probationary period)
Note: You must submit documentation to support any eligibilities for which you wish to be considered.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a United States citizen?
 Yes
 No


Political Appointee
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙