Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers
Announcement Number
FLETC-CFO-26-12935430 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 20, 2026 to Apr 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently employed as a permanent career or career-conditional employee with the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) in the Competitive Service?

To verify your eligibility as a current FLETC employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

• Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
• Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9
11
12


FLETC Data
1.

Are you applying for a promotion? It is a promotion if you are applying for a general schedule (GS) position that is higher than the grade level you currently hold or previously held in the past. To be considered for a promotion, you must provide SF-50(s) that shows that you have held the next lower GS grade for at least one year. SF-50s that have an effective date within the past year (e.g., General Adjustment SF-50 from this year or Within Rate/Grade Increases (WRI/WGI) SF-50 within a year) do not clearly show that you meet the one-year time-in-grade requirement. That means if you submit an SF-50 that is dated within the last year, you must submit another SF-50 that is dated more than one year ago to clearly demonstrate you meet the time-in-grade requirements.

 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion. I have submitted one or two SF-50(s) that show I have held the next lower GS grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year.
 No, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a GS grade that I currently hold or have held in the past. I have submitted an SF-50 to support this claim.
 Yes, I am a GS employee (or have held a GS position within the last 52 weeks) applying for a promotion but I have not held the next lower grade or equivalent (non-GS pay system) for at least one year. I was recently promoted to my current grade level within the last year so I do not meet the time-in-grade requirements for promotion.
 No, I am not a GS employee and I have not been a GS employee within the last year (e.g. I am in a pay band, or I am an FWS employee, or I have never worked for the federal government) so this is not applicable to me.


2.
How did you learn about this Department of Homeland Security (DHS) job opportunity announcement?
Career Fair
Met a FLETC representative at a recruitment event
Magazine
Newspaper
Radio
TV
Poster
Private Employment Office
State Employment Office (Unemployment Office)
Agency Human Resources Development (bulletin board or other announcement)
Agency or other Federal government recruitment at school or college
Federal, state, or local Job Information Center
Religious organization
College, university, or career placement counselor
Friend or relative working for this agency
Friend or relative not working for this agency
USAJOBS
Professional Association
Publication
Conference
College Event
Private information service
LinkedIn
Other


3.
Select the rating level you received, as applicable to your agency's performance management system, for your last performance appraisal. Please provide a copy of your last performance appraisal.
 Outstanding | Achieved Excellence
 Exceeds Fully Successful/Highly Successful | Exceeded Expectations
 Fully Successful/Pass | Achieved Expectations
 Minimally Satisfactory/Minimally Acceptable
 Unacceptable/Fail
 None of the above


4.
Select the types of awards you have received within the last three years.
 A. Quality Step Increase
 B. Special Act or Time Off Award
 C. Performance Award
 D. Honorary Award
 E. Letter of Commendation
 F. None of the above


5.
List any education and/or training related to this position (do not provide copies of certificates).


6.
I have thoroughly reviewed the 'How to Apply/Required Documents' & 'Qualifications' sections of this Vacancy Announcement to determine which supplemental documents to submit. This may include: Transcripts to verify undergraduate/graduate education; A Current/Non-Award SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, noting current position title, series, grade, position occupied, tenure, highest salary (including basic pay) and duty location if I am a current/former Federal employee; DD-214 if I am a veteran (and SF-15/VA Letter if applicable), etc. I understand that failure to fax or upload required documents by the vacancy announcement's closing date may result in loss of consideration. Answer to this question is required.
 Yes
 No


7.
Did you accept a lump sum payment from the government through a workforce transition program such as the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP), Voluntary Early Retirement Authority (VERA), and/ or Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) before September 30th, 2025?
 Yes, I accepted a lump sum pay out from a workforce transition program.
 Yes, I accepted the Deferred Resignation Program (DRP) only.
 No, I did not participate in either program.


Assessment 1
1.
This position is ONLY open to current FLETC employees serving under a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. You must submit an SF-50 that shows you currently work for (DHS) FLETC on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. Please make sure you application includes your latest SF 50 for this year and please do not submit award SF 50s. You can log in to your eOPF to obtain your latest SF-50.
 Yes, I am current FLETC employee serving under a career or career-conditional appointment and I have provided my latest SF-50.
 No, I am not a current FLETC employee.


2.
Education Requirement: This position has a basic education requirement which must be met in addition to meeting the specialized experience. Select the one statement that best describes the education or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work.
 Degree: I have a degree in accounting; or a degree in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.
 Combination of education and experience: I have at least 4 years of experience in accounting, or an equivalent combination of accounting experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional accounting knowledge. My background includes one of the following: (1) 24 semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality (this can include up to 6 hours of business law); (2) A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination; or (3) Completion of the requirements for a degree that included substantial course work in accounting or auditing, e.g., 15 semester hours, but that does not fully satisfy the 24-semester-hour requirement of paragraph A, provided that (a) the applicant has successfully worked at the full-performance level in accounting, auditing, or a related field, e.g., valuation engineering or financial institution examining; (b) a panel of at least two higher level professional accountants or auditors has determined that the applicant has demonstrated a good knowledge of accounting and of related and underlying fields that equals in breadth, depth, currency, and level of advancement that which is normally associated with successful completion of the 4-year course of study described in paragraph A; and (c) except for literal nonconformance to the requirement of 24 semester hours in accounting, the applicant's education, training, and experience fully meet the specified requirements.
 I do not meet the requirement described above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service performing basic accounting operations, to include data entry and processing of financial transactions, preparing simple forms and schedules for internal and external reporting.
 My experience is not listed as stated above.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Performing accounting analysis or reconciliations to validate the integrity of data; AND assisting senior staff members with accounting or financial management assignments.
 I have successfully completed one full academic year of graduate level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor’s degree in a curriculum that is qualifying for this position, and I meet one the following requirements for Superior Academic Achievement: (1) Class Standing - I graduated in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) – I have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on my official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR (3) Honor Society Membership – I am eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies (https://www.achsnatl.org/). Membership in a freshman honor society cannot be used to meet the requirements of this provision. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts and/or verification of class standing or election to honor society membership.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some graduate level education as described in B, but less than the required one year. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Performing accounting analysis or reconciliations to validate the integrity of data; Advising staff on accounting or financial management assignments.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Applying accounting theories, concepts, principles, or standards to the financial activities of an organization; Reconciling administrative or specialized accounts to validate the integrity of accounting data; AND Analyzing accounting systems in order to modify or adapt accounting practices to solve accounting problems.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


7.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Accountant work at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service providing expert advice on complex financial accounting work, affecting all directorates and independently processing and analyzing program operations involving financial management systems and electronic interfaces.
 No, my experience does not match the experience as stated as above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, ALL of the information provided on this application is true, accurate, and complete, and that this application for employment is made in good faith. I understand that a false statement on any part of this application may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also understand that I may be punished by fine or imprisonment for falsification of my employment application (18 USC 1001). I understand that information I give may be investigated as allowed by law or Executive order. Do you understand and agree to all the above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙