Position Title
PROCUREMENT COORDINATOR (GPC) -T5 OBO
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-13007993-T5-26-298 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
National Guard Requirement
1.
This position is open to currently employed Title 5 National Guard Employees of the Wisconsin National Guard. Do you currently meet this requirement?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.



1.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience serving as the Agency/Organization Program Coordinator (A/OPC) for the designated Contracting Office?


3a.
Please explain your experience.


4.
Are you able to coordinate with other Government Purchase Card (GPC) stakeholders as required to provide additional training and guidance in relation to the GPC Program?


4a.
Please explain your experience.


5.
Do you have experience providing technical direction and procurement procedures regarding GPC regulations and policy?


5a.
Please explain your experience. 


6.
Do you have experience auditing GPC documentation to ensure compliance with policies and procedures?


6a.
Please explain your experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙