Position Title
Assistant Grocery Department Manager
Agency
Defense Commissary Agency
Announcement Number
DECA-26-CCP-12911897-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 05, 2026 to Apr 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
Redstone Arsenal, AL
Anchorage Area AK, Elmendorf AFB, AK
Fort Wainwright, AK
Davis Monthan AFB, AZ
Luke AFB, AZ
Little Rock AFB, AR
Camp Pendleton, CA
March AFB, CA
Miramar MCAS, Marine Corps Air Station Miramar, CA
McClellan, CA
North Island NAS, Naval Air Station San Diego, CA
San Diego NB, San Diego County, CA
Travis AFB, CA
Twentynine Palms, CA
Buckley AFB, CO
Fort Carson, CO
Peterson AFB, CO
Eglin AFB, FL
Jacksonville, FL
MacDill AFB, FL
Mayport, FL
Patrick SFB, Patrick AFB, FL
Pensacola, FL
Fort Benning, GA
Fort Gordon, GA
Fort Stewart, GA
Kings Bay, GA
Robins AFB, GA
Andersen Air Base, GU
Orote, Santa Rita, GU
Hickam AFB, HI
Kaneohe Bay, Kaneohe, HI
Pearl Harbor, HI
Schofield Barracks, HI
Great Lakes, IL
Scott AFB, IL
Fort Riley, KS
Fort Campbell, KY
Fort Knox, KY
Bangor, ME
Andrews AFB, MD
Fort Meade, MD
Keesler AFB, MS
Meridian, MS
Fort Leonard Wood, MO
Offutt AFB, NE
Nellis AFB, NV
McGuire AFB, NJ
Kirtland AFB, NM
Camp Lejeune, NC
Cherry Point, NC
Fort Bragg North/South, Fort Bragg, NC
Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
Fort Sill, OK
Tinker AFB, OK
Pittsburgh Area, Moon, PA
Fort Buchanan, PR
Fort Jackson, SC
Parris Island, SC
Shaw AFB, SC
Arnold AFB, TN
Fort Bliss, TX
Fort Hood I/II, Fort Hood, TX
Fort Sam Houston, TX
Lackland AFB, TX
Randolph AFB, TX
Fort Belvoir, VA
Fort Eustis, VA
Fort Lee, VA
Fort Myer, VA
Langley AFB, VA
Little Creek Amphibious Base, VA
Norfolk, VA
Quantico, VA
Oceana NAS, Virginia Beach, VA
Fort Lewis, Joint Base Lewis-McChord, WA
McChord AFB, WA
Chievres, Belgium
Ansbach, Germany
Baumholder, Germany
Grafenwohr, Germany
Hohenfels, Germany
Kaiserslautern, Germany
Ramstein, Germany
Spangdahlem, Germany
Stuttgart, Germany
Vilseck, Germany
Wiesbaden, Germany
Aviano, Italy
Vicenza, Italy
Atsugi Naval Air Facility, Japan
Camp Courtney Okinawa, Japan
Camp Foster, Japan
Camp Kinser, Japan
Iwakuni Marine Corps Air Station, Japan
Kadena Air Base Okinawa, Japan
Misawa AFB, Japan
Sagamihara, Japan
Hario, Sasebo, Japan
Yokosuka, Japan
Yokota Air Base, Japan
Camp Humphreys, South Korea
Osan, South Korea
TAEGU, South Korea
Yongsan, South Korea
Rota, Spain
Alconbury, United Kingdom
Lakenheath, United Kingdom


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8
9
10


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Announcement Screen-out
1.
Are you able to frequently lift, push, pull, carry, or handle products weighing up to 40 pounds without assistance, and occasionally more than 40 pounds with assistance?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you able to perform duties involving prolonged standing, stooping, kneeling, bending, climbing and walking?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the response that best describes how you meet the required qualifications for this position. Creditable specialized experience for this position includes managing a commissary store, supermarket, or similar type of commercial retail food store; managing a department in a retail food store; planning, standardizing, or controlling operations in an assigned group of commercial retail food stores; developing, interpreting, or applying policies, procedures, and operating standards for use in a retail food store; providing technical advice on merchandising and operational matters pertaining to grocery, meats, and produce, as well as front end operations.
 If applying for GS-07: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector (OR) I possess one full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement (OR) I possess a combination of education and experience as described, which when combined equals 100% of the qualification requirements.
 If applying for GS-08: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector (OR) I possess one and one-half full years of graduate level education as described in the qualifications portion of the announcement (OR) I possess a combination of education and experience as described, which when combined equals 100% of the qualification requirements.
 If applying for GS-09: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector (OR) I possess Master's or equivalent graduate degree or two years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL. B or J.D., if related (OR) I possess a combination of education and experience as described, which when combined equals 100% of the qualification requirements.
 If applying for GS-10: I possess one year of credible specialized experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) to successfully perform the duties of the position, and is directly in or related to this position. My specialized experience is at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the federal service, military or private sector (OR) I possess two and one-half full years of graduate level education as described in the qualifications portion of the announcement (OR) I possess a combination of education and experience as described, which when combined equals 100% of the qualification requirements.
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in the above statements.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Within the last 12 months have you had a permanent change of station (PCS) move at government expense?
 Yes
 No


3.
Identify which of the following awards you have received during the past 12 months:
 A. Quality Increase/Quality Step Increase or Sustained Superior Performance Award
 B. Special Act, Suggestion or other award (includes non-monetary awards)
 C. None of the above


4.
My most recent performance appraisal rating is:
 Outstanding
 Excellent or Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful or less than Fully Successful
 I do not have a government performance appraisal.


In this part, you will respond to questions about experience you have had that are related to the requirements of the job for which you are applying.  Carefully review the level of descriptions listed below.  For each question, select the responses that best describe your experience and record your selection.


5.
Aisle inspection reveals several empty product slots, but the storage room shows sufficient backup stock. What is the most likely cause of this issue?
 Inaccurate demand forecasting.
 An issue with receiving and data entry.
 Inefficient stocking procedures or inadequate staffing.
 A problem with the supplier's delivery schedule.


6.
When conducting an item inspection, you notice a low stock level on a high-demand item. What is the most proactive step to take?
 Wait for the automatic reorder to happen.
 Add the item to a manual reorder list and notify the manager.
 Tell a customer service associate to inform customers it's out of stock.
 Assume it will be re-stocked by the next delivery.


7.
How should an Assistant Grocery Manager create the initial, most accurate list of not-in-stock items to initiate research?
 Use the most recent sales reports to see which items have not been sold recently.
 Conduct a physical walk-through of all store aisles and back stock areas, visually noting empty shelf spaces and unreplenished items.
 Request a report from the point-of-sale (POS) system that flags items with zero units on hand.
 Rely on team member feedback from the sales floor.


8.
After a list of not-in-stock items is compiled, what is the most logical next step to research the cause of the shortage?
 Check the delivery schedule to see if the item is on an incoming truck.
 Post a sign on the empty shelf with an expected restock date.
 Contact the supplier to place a rush order for the missing product.
 Analyze historical sales data and check the electronic inventory management system for discrepancies in units on hand.


9.
When spot-checking a refrigerated produce delivery, an assistant manager notices that the temperature inside the truck is 50°F, while the vendor's manifest requires a temperature of 41°F. What is the assistant manager's primary concern?
 The store's refrigerators are not calibrated correctly.
 The produce is too warm and may have compromised freshness and safety.
 The store will be overcharged for the delivery.
 The vendor is using an older, less efficient truck.


10.
A product has a reorder point of 50 units. The store currently has 75 units on the shelf and an additional 30 units in the back room. What is the correct action to take?
 Place an order for new stock immediately.
 Mark down the price of the product to increase sales.
 Rotate the back-room stock to the shelf and hold the order until inventory drops below 50 units.
 Notify the grocery manager that there is an inventory error.


11.
You notice a consistent shortage of a popular brand of bread every Tuesday afternoon. The next delivery is not until Wednesday morning. What is the most effective solution?
 Tell customers that the bread will be in tomorrow.
 Increase the standing order quantity for that bread to meet the consistent demand.
 Tell the ordering manager to change the supplier.
 Reduce the price of other bread to encourage sales.


12.
You are using a handheld scanner to perform a cycle count on canned goods in aisle 5. The system shows a Balance on Hand (BOH) of 12 for a specific type of soup. Your physical count reveals only 9 cans on the shelf and in the backroom. What is the correct action to take in the inventory system?
 Ignore the discrepancy and move on to the next item.
 Manually adjust the BOH to 12 to match what the system originally said.
 Perform a store-initiated cycle count and input the correct physical count of 9 to adjust the BOH.
 Take the 9 cans to the backroom and label them as out of stock.


13.
When a vendor delivery arrives, what is the most critical first step for an Assistant Grocery Manager?
 Quickly move the products to the sales floor to prevent empty shelves.
 Sign the delivery invoice immediately to save time.
 Inspect the delivery for correct quantity, quality, and any signs of damage or spoilage.
 Inform staff to begin unloading the truck while you check the temperature of refrigerated items later.


14.
12. As the Assistant Manager, you review the visitor log at the end of your shift and notice that a visitor checked in at 10:00 a.m. but never checked out. What is the most appropriate action to take?
 Assume the visitor forgot to sign out and ignore the entry.
 Cross out the entry and make a note that the visitor was not found.
 Immediately contact the person the visitor was meeting to confirm their departure and make a note in the log.
 File a formal report with corporate security without investigating further.


15.
What is the primary purpose of a visitor control log in a retail grocery store?
 To track customer complaints.
 To record all incoming and outgoing product deliveries.
 To create a record of all non-employees entering and exiting restricted areas.
 To monitor employee attendance.


16.
Complete formal performance appraisals on employees.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less of experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


17.
Counsel employees on performance and conduct issues.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less of experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


18.
Establish and/or revise work methods and performance standards for subordinate employees.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less of experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


19.
Identify training needs and plan on the job training for subordinates.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task.
 I have one year or less of experience in performing this activity/ task in a commissary or retail grocery store. I have had exposure to this activity through formal education but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have at least two years of experience and demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least three years of experience and substantial demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.
 I have at least four years of experience and extensive demonstrated skill in performing this activity/task in a commissary or retail grocery store.


20.
During a team meeting, you need to announce a new store policy that you know will be unpopular with your team. How do you handle this?
 Downplay the policy's impact and assure the team it won't be a big deal.
 Explain the reasons behind the policy, address potential concerns, and present it positively.
 State the new policy and move on quickly to the next agenda item.
 Start by saying you disagree with the policy, but have to enforce it anyway.


21.
An employee is consistently exceeding their sales goals but often arrives late to meetings and doesn't fully participate in team tasks. How would you approach this?
 Do nothing, as they are meeting their sales goals and contributing to the store's success.
 Focus only on the positive performance to keep them motivated.
 Praise them for their sales performance privately but also address the negative impact of their other behaviors on the team.
 Address only the negative behaviors and put them on a performance improvement plan.


22.
A customer is describing a specific product they are looking for, but you're having trouble understanding exactly what they mean. How should you respond?
 Assume what they want and take them to a product you think is similar.
 Tell them you don’t know what they’re talking about and move on.
 Repeat back what you think you heard and ask clarifying questions to ensure you understand their request.
 Ask another customer if they understand what the person is asking for.


23.
A supervisor is reviewing the monthly financial report for the grocery department. The report shows a higher-than-expected "Cost of Goods Sold" (COGS) relative to sales. What is the most likely reason?
 The department has had a low number of customer complaints.
 The store’s rental expenses have increased.
 The department is experiencing high levels of inventory shrinkage.
 Employee wages were higher than budgeted.


24.
You are receiving a shipment from a new snack vendor. The packing slip indicates 20 cases of product, but only 18 cases are on the pallet. What is the correct procedure?
 Accept the shipment, sign for all 20 cases, and call the vendor later to report the issue.
 Refuse the entire delivery and send the driver back with all the products.
 Sign the packing slip for the 18 cases received and immediately note the discrepancy. Then, inform the driver that you will be contacting their company to resolve the issue.
 Sign the packing slip for the 18 cases received and immediately note the discrepancy. Then, inform the driver that you will be contacting their company to resolve the issue.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙