Position Title
General Attorney
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDC-26-13074311-Attorney
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 30, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
COE
.
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.
1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No
2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No
Min Quals Only
.
Thank you for your interest in a General Attorney, position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of General Attorney at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have a professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D.). (You must upload transcripts)
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.
2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a General Attorney at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have two or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, performing the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: Providing legal counsel on complex issues by researching and interpreting federal and state laws and regulations to advise on organizational programs and day-to-day operations. Preparing legal documents, such as opinions, memoranda, and other legal instruments, to address novel questions of law and policy. Representing an organization in forums such as meetings, negotiations, or conferences with external stakeholders.
 I have an advance law degree such as an LLM (masters of law) or am a graduate with a distinguished record from an ABA-Accredited Law School in the top 25% of the class which I may substitute for one year of the required professional legal experience and I have one year of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. Examples of this experience are: Providing legal counsel on complex issues by researching and interpreting federal and state laws and regulations to advise on organizational programs and day-to-day operations. Preparing legal documents, such as opinions, memoranda, and other legal instruments, to address novel questions of law and policy. Representing an organization in forums such as meetings, negotiations, or conferences with external stakeholders.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statements.
3.
Are you a member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, or Commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No
4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
