Position Title
Industrial Hygienist -Technical Career Field (TCF) Trainee
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13065606-26-ANS Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 17, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the position of Technical Career Field Trainees(TCF) Industrial Hygienist GS-0690-7 Target 9/11 located at VISN 8, Orlando VA Medical Center Health Administration. Applicants must meet all of the following basic requirements to qualify for the position. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Industrial Hygiene Series 0690;
Individual Occupational Requirement-(IOR):
To be considered for the position, you must ensure that the experience is reflected in your resume and/or if applicable, transcripts must be uploaded to support education requirement or substitution.

Basic Requirements:

The education must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education(external link) at the time the degree was obtained.  Applicants must meet one of the following requirements:
A bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or related science; -OR-
A bachelor's degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene; -OR-
Certification from the Board for Global EHS Credentialing (formerly American Board of Industrial Hygiene(external link) (ABIH)).

NOTE: Courses in the history or teaching of chemistry are not acceptable.

Evaluation of Education
All science or engineering courses offered in fulfillment of the above requirements must be acceptable for credit toward the completion of a standard 4-year professional curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in science or engineering at an accredited college or university. For engineering degrees to be acceptable, the curriculum must be in a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by Certification from the Board for Global EHS Credentialing (formerly American Board of Industrial Hygiene(external link) (ABIH)). as a professional engineering curriculum.

Evaluation of Experience
Qualifying experience involves the recognition, evaluation, corrective actions, and elimination of environmental conditions in the workplace that causes sickness, impaired health, or illness. This experience must demonstrate a professional knowledge of the theory and application of the principles of industrial hygiene and closely related sciences such as physics and engineering controls.

Such work must have involved experience in all of the following areas: the acquisition of quantitative and qualitative data, and the measurement of exposures for a variety of chemical, physical, and biological stresses; the analysis of the data acquired and the prediction of probable effects of exposures on the health and well-being of workers; and the selection and recommendation of appropriate controls, including management, medical, engineering, education or training, and personal protective equipment.
 I meet the IOR requirement with a bachelor's or graduate/higher level degree in industrial hygiene, occupational health sciences, occupational and environmental health, toxicology, safety sciences, or related science. (Transcript required).
 I meet the IOR requirement with a bachelor's degree in a branch of engineering, physical science, or life science that included 12 semester hours in chemistry, including organic chemistry, and 18 additional semester hours of courses in any combination of chemistry, physics, engineering, health physics, environmental health, biostatistics, biology, physiology, toxicology, epidemiology, or industrial hygiene. (Transcript required).
 I meet the IOR requirement by having the Certification from the Board for Global EHS Credentialing (formerly American Board of Industrial Hygiene(external link) (ABIH)). (Certificate required).
 I meet the IOR requirement by having the qualifying experience. (Resume must support response).
 I do not meet the IOR as described above; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


2.
Minimum Qualifications GS-7 Specialized Experience: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal Service. (SF-50 Submitted)

GS-7 Specialized Experience

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
Works under the close supervision of the environment of the Care Supervisor engineering Service or a hire graded industrial hygienist, who provides specific instructions on objectives, scope, methods, and deadlines for assignments.
Support the monitoring of facility compliance with Federal and VA safety regulations by documenting observed conditions and reporting potential deviations to senior industrial hygienists.
Prepares drafts briefings, handouts, ad toolbox-talk materials for safety/industrial hygiene topics (e.g., hazard communication, basic exposure controls) and deliver short orientation updates to work groups under close supervision; incorporate supervisor feedback to ensure clarity and audience-appropriate language.
AND,
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the experience required,to qualify based on education for this grade level you must have IOR Basic Requirements.
OR,
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-5 grade level in the normal line of progression for the Veterans Health Administration occupation in the organization.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


3.
Minimum Qualifications GS-9 Specialized Experience: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-7 grade level in the Federal Service.

GS-9 Specialized Experience
Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
The incumbent delivers briefings and presentations to workgroups and supervisors on inspections results and exposure-control recommendations, tailoring content to technical and non-technical audiences.
The incumbent develop unit- level exposure assessment plans, collect characterizations data (agents, workforce, tasks), and recommend controls for elevated risks.
Assist in evaluating compliance with established policies and procedures, including reviewing documentation, incident data, and control measures to ensure alignment with VA, OSHA, and NFPA standards.
Conducts surveillance and basic sampling to assess hazardous material exposures (chemical biological, physical) and verify proper labeling, storage, and handling across OV AHCS facilities.
OR,
Education:Applicants may substitute education for the experience required. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree. (NOTE: This is in addition to the Industrial Hygiene Series 0690; Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR) above).

OR,

Combination of Experience & Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond graduate level education (IOR) (beyond the second year as described above, which may be used to meet total experience requirements for this grade level. The education portion must include graduate courses that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the Industrial Hygienist position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-7 grade level in the normal line of progression for the Veterans Health Administration occupation in the organization.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


4.
Minimum Qualifications GS-11 Specialized Experience: Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Your resume must support your response. Applicants must have one (1) full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service.

GS-11 Specialized Experience
Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:
The incumbent is responsible for planning, developing, and coordinating a comprehensive Industrial Hygiene Program for the Orlando VA Medical Center and associated Community Based Outpatient Clinics. Program elements include environmental monitoring; recordkeeping; medical surveillance; personal protective equipment; hazardous materials management; lead and asbestos control and abatement; and employee education and training.
The position assists Medical Centers in establishing and maintaining Occupational Health Programs, developing Medical Center Policies (MCPs), standard operating procedures (SOPs), reducing or eliminating occupational hazards, and ensuring alignment with national and regional policies.
The incumbent responds to inquiries, concerns, and complaints from VA leadership, visitors, employees, and employee representatives regarding occupational health matters.
Responses may include environmental or personal exposure sampling using approved instruments and methodologies. The incumbent recommends corrective actions to mitigate or eliminate identified hazards to employees and visitors and designs, prepares, and delivers employee training.
The incumbent conducts Industrial Hygiene inspections to determine compliance with Occupational Health and Safety (OSHA) standards, regulations, and VA directives.
OR,

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the Industrial Hygienist position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED).

OR,

Combination of Experience & Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have an combination of specialized experience and education beyond graduate level education (beyond a Master's or equivalent graduate degree) the second year o) as described above, which may be used to meet total experience requirements for this grade level. The education portion must include graduate courses that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the Industrial Hygienist position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the normal line of progression for the Veterans Health Administration occupation in the organization.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or have completed 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess a combination of experience and education. My total qualifying experience as a percentage of the specialized experience required plus my total creditable education as a percentage of the education required equals at least 100 percent. NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


Resume Reminder:
Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙