Position Title
Dietitian (Clinical) TeleMove
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12980431-26-DRD Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Dietitian (Clinical) position at the Orlando VA. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you qualify for this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s) to the basic requirements for the position of Dietitian.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship: Are you a U.S. Citizen or Naturalized Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Per VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Chapter 2, Section D, Paragraph 5a: No person will be appointed under authority of 38 U.S.C., chapter 73 or 74, to serve in a direct patient-care capacity in VHA who is not proficient in written and spoken English.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


3.
REGISTRATION/CERTIFICATION: Candidates must be registered with the Commission on Dietetic Registration CDR.

All applicants must hold the RDN credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. Note: Applicants who hold the RDN credential have met the education requirement (e.g., bachelor's degree or higher) of CDR, as such this occupation is considered professional and scientific with a positive education requirement and the procedures in Part I, Chapter 4 of this Handbook will be followed when applying Veteran's preference.

Please select the statement that best describes how you meet the registration/certification requirement.
 Yes, I hold a RDN Credential from the Commission on Dietetic Registration (CDR) the credentialing agency of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, therefore I meet the education requirement of a bachelors degree or higher.
 I am a non-CDR registered applicant, but I meet the minimum qualification requirements. I have earned a bachelor's or higher degree from a U.S. regionally accredited college, university or foreign equivalent and completed an ACEND accredited experiential or supervised practice program and provide a verification statement from the program director that conveys eligibility to take the CDR registration exam as a prospective RDN. I am pending CDR registration and applying for consideration at the GS-07 or GS-09 grade level and I am willing to accept a temporary appointment.
 I meet the grandfathering provisions and have protected status.
 I do not meet the requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Grade Determination: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-07

Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


5.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-09

Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

OR,

Education. Master's degree from a regionally accredited university or college. (Transcripts Required)

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of various accrediting and regulatory requirements.
(b) Knowledge of virtual technology to provide nutrition care.
(c) Ability to deliver patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
(d) Ability to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
(e) Ability to develop patient-centered goals.
(f) Ability to collect data for performance improvement studies.
(g) Ability to collaborate with stakeholders.


 I possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-07
 I have a master’s degree from a regionally accredited university or college
 I do not possess the experience, education, and/or KSA requirement described above.


6.
GRADE/EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT: Dietitian (Clinical), GS-11.

Experience. At least one year of experience as an RDN equivalent to the next lower grade.

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Skill in delivering patient care using the NCP (e.g., assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring and evaluation).
(b) Skill in interpreting research to apply evidence-based nutrition practices to improve patient outcomes.
(c) Skill in developing patient-centered goals.
(d) Skill in analyzing data for performance improvement studies.
(e) Skill in collaborating with stakeholders.
(f) Ability to comply with various accrediting, regulatory and agency authorities.
 I have successfully completed at least 1 year of experience as a registered dietitian equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-09.
 I do not possess the experience and/or KSA requirement described above.


Certification of Understanding - Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives, other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information can result in you being fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001) and/or removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). Any information you give may be investigated and responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in you not being considered for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
VERIFICATION STATEMENT:
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes
 No


Resume Reminders - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
1. - Job title
2. - Duties (be as detailed as possible)
3. - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
4. - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
5. If you are selected, you may be required to submit additional information regarding your level of knowledge, skills and abilities required for this position.
6. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume.
7. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
8. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title.
9. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.
10. Please be sure to not place pictures on your resume.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙