Position Title
Supervisory Physician (Public Health)
Agency
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Announcement Number
HHS-CDC-DH-26-12937694 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) - Are you a current employee of the Health and Human Services (HHS) who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service? If yes, confirm you meet all the following requirements:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES), AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review USAJOBS Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) - Are you a current or former federal employee who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of Health and Human Services (HHS)? If yes, confirm you meet all the following requirements:
 
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy;
Your grade is/was equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy;
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent;
It has been less than a year from your separation from Federal service

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal, AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review USAJOBS Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


4.
The Reemployment Priority List (RPL) is a mechanism used by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to provide reemployment consideration to former competitive service employees who were separated by reduction-in-force (RIF) or who have fully recovered from a compensable injury after more than one year.

Do you wish to be considered under the Reemployment Priority List (RPL) as a former HHS employee who has been separated by RIF or due to a compensable injury?

If so, have you met the following criteria? 
- You are registered for the RPL program.
- You previously occupied a position in the same local commuting area as the current vacancy.
- For RIF cases: you held a position at or above the grade of the announced vacancy, with no greater promotion potential.
- For compensable injury cases: you have accepted a lower-graded position or been separated due to injury, fully recovered after a year, and received notice that injury compensation has ended or will end.
- Your most recent performance rating is at least "fully successful" or equivalent.

To support your claim, please submit the following documentation:
- Your most recent SF-50 or equivalent document showing your position, tenure, grade and step, salary, and full performance level.
- For RIF separations: Your SF-50 showing Separation -RIF, or official documentation of your RIF separation notice or a proposed removal/separation notice.
- For compensable injury separations: Your SF-50 showing separation, or the SF-50 indicating you accepted a lower grade or pay level in lieu of separation, and notification from the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) termination of benefits.
- Your latest performance rating and rating of record (if separate), showing your rating score.

For more information about RPL eligibility and required documentation, you may refer to 5 CFR 330 Subpart B.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. If you elect not to answer the questions, you will not be disqualified or screened out from consideration for this vacancy.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Physician (Public Health) position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your education which meets the Basic Qualification Requirements for Supervisory Physician (Public Health), GS-0602-15.
 I have a Degree: Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine or equivalent from a school in the United States or Canada. This degree must have been accredited by the Council on Medical Education of the American Medical Association; Association of American Medical Colleges; Liaison Committee on Medical Education; Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation of the American Osteopathic Association, or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained.
 I have a Degree from a Foreign Medical School: A Doctor of Medicine or equivalent degree from a foreign medical school must provide education and medical knowledge equivalent to accredited schools in the United States. Evidence of equivalency to accredited schools in the United States is demonstrated by permanent certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates, a fifth pathway certificate for Americans who completed premedical education in the United States and graduate education in a foreign country, or successful completion of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination.
 I do not possess the education as described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your Graduate Training and meets the additional Minimum Qualification Requirements for Supervisory Physician (Public Health), GS-0602-15.
Subsequent to obtaining a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, a candidate must have had at least 1 year of supervised experience providing direct service in a clinical setting, i.e., a 1-year internship or the first year of a residency program in a hospital or an institution accredited for such training. For purposes of this standard, graduate training programs include only those internship, residency, and fellowship programs that are approved by accrediting bodies recognized within the United States or Canada. Descriptions of such programs are described below.
 I have An internship program; which involves broadly based clinical practice in which physicians acquire experience in treating a variety of medical problems under supervision (e.g., internal medicine, surgery, general practice, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics). Such programs are in hospitals or other institutions accredited for internship training by a recognized body of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have A residency program; which involves training in a specialized field of medicine in a hospital or an institution accredited for training in the specialty by a recognized body of the American Medical Association (external link), (AMA) or Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).
 I have A fellowship program; which involves advanced training (beyond residency training) in a given medical specialty in either a clinical or research setting in a hospital or an institution accredited in the United States for such training.
 I do not have the Graduate Training (Internship, Residency or Fellowship) described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your "Additional" Graduate Training and meets the additional Minimum Qualification Requirements for Supervisory Physician (Public Health), GS-0602-15.
 I have 5 years of graduate training in the specialty of the position to be filled or possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in federal service serving as a senior advisor providing scientific and editorial leadership and management of scientific journals and reports; providing strategic direction for content scope, overseeing content management and conducting impact analysis; ensuring scientific quality, integrity, and evidence-based standards of publications.
 I do not possess the additional graduate training or experience described above.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding 'No' to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙