Position Title
Administrative Officer
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-12990959-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Resume Reminder.
Your resume must include the following information:

Employment Entries
Position: Title, Employer.
Duration: Starting and ending dates of experience (month and year).
Hours: Worked per week.

Education: Name and location of college, dates attended, and type / date of any degree earned.
*Transcript may be required with application.

Licenses and/or certificates earned.
*License verification must be included with application if listed as a requirement.

To ensure you are properly rated, you must make certain the required experience and knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) listed in the qualifications section is addressed in detail in your resume. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.



INSTRUCTIONS: TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT (TIG): Applicants who are current Federal employees AND have held a General Schedule (GS) grade any time in the past 52 weeks (full-time equivalency) must also meet time-in-grade requirements by the closing date of this announcement. For a GS-11 grade level position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-09 grade level. The grade may have been in any occupation but must have been held in the Federal Service.

NOTE: If you have not held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks, or are a Wage Grade (WG) employee, this requirement does not apply to you. Also, this does not apply to temporary, term or intermittent appointments in accordance with 5 C.F.R. 300.603.].

Please provide a copy of your most recent SF-50, "Notification of Personnel Action" to verify your current Federal Service status.

You must also submit additional SF-50(s) with salary information to clearly demonstrate one (1) year time-in-grade as required in the announcement.
If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate that you possess one (1) year time-in-grade.
In this instance, you should provide additional SF-50s to clearly demonstrate one (1) year time-in-grade.


1.
To qualify at the GS-11 level your resume must demonstrate one year of specialized experience that equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of an Administrative Officer at the GS-11 grade level. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service.

Specialized Experience includes: 
Preparing graphics, photos/slides, and creates tables and graphs based on analyzed statistical data to use in presentations at meetings, workshops, and conferences.
Conducting data analysis for clinic optimization and streamlining of workflow processes.
Creating/Developing facility and service line Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and Service Line Agreements (SLAs) to establish and prepare administrative policies, directives, and procedures for implementation.
Serving as the primary point of contact for all external communication drafting, reviewing, and managing all external correspondence.

OR

Education: You must possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work;

OR

Combination: You must possess a combination of Graduate Education beyond a Master's Degree (leading to a PhD) and Specialized Experience. Such experience and education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.

NOTE: You must clearly demonstrate that you possess the specialized experience on your resume, or you will not qualify for the position.
 I possess one year of GS-09 specialized experience that equipped me with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of an Administrative Officer at the GS-11 grade level.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related.
 I possess a combination of Graduate Education beyond a Master's Degree (leading to a PhD) and Specialized Experience.
 I do not possess the Experience or Education above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated and responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙