Position Title
Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDD-26-12848684-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 11, 2025 to Dec 22, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees Applying on Time-Limited Assignments
    
This job opportunity announcement is open to current, permanent Army employees that would occupy the position under a time-limited promotion, reassignment or change to lower grade not to exceed (NTE). You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.
    
•  ARMY CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").
    
Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.
    
Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.
    
Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee Applying on Time-Limited Assignments?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0808 - Architecture
 C. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 D. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 E. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary (Architect/ Engineer) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Architect at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher) in architecture, or a related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have a degree in architectural engineering which provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in A above. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. I have one year of experience working in an architect's office or in architectural work, which provided me with a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture, for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, I have five years of such experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Engineer at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary (Architect/ Engineer) at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service which includes the following: 1) Reviewing contract plans or specifications for construction projects; AND 2) Reviewing construction cost estimates or proposals; AND 3) Preparing contract modifications for construction projects.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.
Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.
There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are an Office Engineer reviewing a construction proposal for a new barracks building. The contractor has submitted a proposal that seems to meet all requirements but includes an innovative construction method you're unfamiliar with. What is the most appropriate course of action?
 Request additional information from the contractor about the innovative method and its previous applications in similar projects.
 Reject the proposal and ask the contractor to resubmit using only conventional construction methods.
 Research the proposed method, consult with subject matter experts, and evaluate its potential benefits and risks before making a recommendation.
 Ignore the innovative method and evaluate the rest of the proposal as if it used standard techniques.
 Approve the proposal based on the contractor's reputation, assuming they wouldn't suggest an unsuitable method.


2.
While reviewing contract plans for a new ammunition storage facility, you notice that the specified fire suppression system doesn't meet the latest district safety regulations. What is the most appropriate action to take?
 Unilaterally change the specifications without consulting other stakeholders or following proper procedures.
 Draft a detailed change proposal outlining the necessary updates to the fire suppression system, citing the relevant district regulations and policies.
 Assume that the original specifications were approved for a reason and take no further action.
 Make a note of the issue and bring it up at the next team meeting for discussion.
 Inform the project manager about the discrepancy and recommend initiating the process to update the specifications.


3.
You discover that a subcontractor on a major road construction project has not been maintaining the required workers' compensation insurance. What is the most appropriate response to this situation?
 Make a note of the issue and plan to follow up with the subcontractor at the next scheduled site meeting.
 Ignore the issue since it's the responsibility of the subcontractor, not the government, to maintain proper insurance.
 Contact the subcontractor directly to inform them of the violation and request immediate proof of insurance coverage.
 Immediately notify the prime contractor and your supervisor, document the issue, and request a corrective action plan with a specific deadline.
 Assume the prime contractor will handle the issue and take no immediate action.


4.
A large warehouse construction project is nearing completion, but you notice that several key closeout documents are still missing two weeks before the scheduled final inspection. What is the most appropriate action to take?
 Wait until the final inspection to address the missing documents, assuming the contractor will provide them by then.
 Mention the missing documents to the contractor during the next routine site visit and ask when they plan to submit them.
 Proceed with the contract closeout process, disregarding the missing documents to avoid any project delays.
 Send a formal reminder to the contractor listing the missing documents and emphasizing the importance of timely submission for contract closeout.
 Create a detailed checklist of missing documents, contact the contractor to request immediate submission, and inform your supervisor of the potential delay.


5.
During the construction of a training facility, a dispute arises between the government and the contractor regarding the interpretation of specifications for the HVAC system. The contractor claims that the current specifications will result in an inadequate system and is requesting a change order. How should you approach this negotiation?
 Review the specifications thoroughly, consult with technical experts, prepare a detailed analysis of both positions, and schedule a meeting to discuss potential compromises that meet both parties' needs.
 Arrange a site visit with the contractor and government technical experts to inspect the HVAC system and discuss the specifications in detail before formal negotiations.
 Ask the contractor to submit a formal written proposal for the changes they believe are necessary, and then review it with your team before responding.
 Reject the contractor's claim outright, insisting that they must adhere to the original specifications as written in the contract.
 Agree to the contractor's requests without verification to avoid project delays, assuming they have more expertise in HVAC systems.


6.
You're managing multiple contract modifications for a complex infrastructure project. You notice that the tracking system for these modifications is becoming disorganized, making it difficult to quickly access important information. What is the most appropriate action to take?


 Assign a team member to reorganize the existing files and create a basic spreadsheet to track the status of each modification
 Continue with the current system but spend extra time each week manually organizing and updating the records.
 Develop a comprehensive digital tracking system that includes all relevant details for each modification, implement it immediately, and train team members on its use.
 Review the current tracking method, identify areas for improvement, and implement a more structured filing system for all modification-related documents.
 Ignore the disorganization, assuming that you can recall the necessary information when needed without a formal tracking system.


7.
You've been tasked with preparing a final contract modification for a significant change in the scope of work for a military housing project. The modification involves complex technical specifications and a substantial cost increase. How do you ensure the modification is properly prepared for the Contracting Officer's signature?



 Ask the contractor to prepare the modification document, assuming they have the best understanding of the changes required.
 Prepare the modification focusing mainly on the cost aspects, assuming the technical details have been adequately addressed in previous discussions, and submit it directly to the Contracting Officer.
 Quickly draft the modification based on your notes from recent meetings and submit it to the Contracting Officer, expecting them to make any necessary corrections.
 Thoroughly review all relevant documents, draft the modification with detailed justifications, have it reviewed by technical experts and legal counsel, then submit it to your supervisor for final review before presenting it to the Contracting Officer.
 Draft the modification based on the agreed changes, circulate it among key team members for input, make necessary revisions, and then submit it to the Contracting Officer with a summary of the main points.


8.
A junior team member approaches you with questions about enforcing the quality control requirements in a road construction contract. They're unsure how to address some minor deviations they've observed. How do you best provide guidance in this situation?



 Provide them with a copy of the relevant contract sections and quality control standards, and offer to review their proposed course of action once they've developed a plan.
 Schedule a meeting to review the contract's quality control requirements together, discuss the observed deviations, and guide them through the proper steps for documentation and contractor notification, emphasizing the importance of consistent enforcement.
 Take over the quality control oversight yourself, deciding it's too complex for a junior team member to handle.
 Advise them not to worry about minor deviations as long as the overall project seems to be progressing well.
 Tell them to document the deviations and report them to the contractor, assuring them that minor issues usually resolve themselves without intervention.


9.
You're overseeing a multi-year renovation project for an administrative building. Midway through the fiscal year, you notice that the project is consuming funds faster than anticipated due to unexpected structural issues. What is the most appropriate action to take?



 Continue the project as planned, assuming that additional funds will be made available if needed when the current budget is exhausted.
 Redirect funds from other projects under your supervision to cover the shortfall without notifying leadership.
 Slow down some aspects of the project to conserve funds, hoping to stretch the current budget until the next fiscal year.
 Alert your supervisor about the potential funding issue, propose a meeting with the finance team to discuss options, and begin preparing a justification for additional funding.
 Immediately conduct a thorough budget review, forecast the potential shortfall, and prepare a detailed report for leadership with options for securing additional funds or adjusting the project scope.


10.
While reviewing the financial reports for a large infrastructure project, you notice that one particular contract line item is approaching its budget limit much faster than expected. What is the most appropriate course of action?


 Analyze the reasons for the accelerated spending, prepare a detailed report on the findings, and schedule a meeting with the project team and contractor to discuss potential solutions and budget adjustments.
 Immediately notify your supervisor and the contracting officer about the issue, and request a meeting to discuss potential reallocation of funds or the need for a contract modification.
 Wait until the next scheduled project review meeting to bring up the issue, hoping that spending will naturally slow down in the meantime.
 Arbitrarily reduce funding for other line items to cover the overspending without consulting the contractor or your team.
 Contact the contractor to inquire about the higher-than-expected costs and ask them to slow down work on that particular line item.


11.
A contractor has submitted a revised progress schedule for a critical military training facility project, showing significant delays in several key areas. You've been asked to review this schedule. What is the most appropriate approach?


 Check if the revised schedule still meets the final completion date, and if so, approve it without further analysis.
 Reject the revised schedule outright and insist that the contractor adhere to the original timeline regardless of the stated delays.
 Thoroughly analyze the revised schedule, compare it with the original timeline and project milestones, identify critical path impacts, and prepare a detailed report with recommendations for schedule recovery or mitigation strategies.
 Approve the revised schedule without review to maintain a good relationship with the contractor, assuming they have valid reasons for the changes.
 Review the schedule and arrange a meeting with the contractor to discuss the reasons for delays and potential solutions before accepting or rejecting the revised timeline.


12.
You're managing a complex project involving the renovation of multiple buildings on a military installation. Various stakeholders, including the district office, contractor, and installation personnel, have conflicting priorities. How do you best manage these relationships?
 Avoid direct communication with stakeholders to prevent conflicts, instead relying solely on written reports to convey project status and issues.
 Focus on satisfying the demands of the most vocal stakeholder, assuming this will keep the project moving forward smoothly.
 Set up individual meetings with each stakeholder group to understand their concerns, then work to find compromises that address the most critical needs of each party.
 Rely primarily on email updates to keep all parties informed, addressing issues as they arise through separate conversations with each group.
 Establish regular coordination meetings with all stakeholders, create a communication plan to ensure consistent information sharing, and proactively address conflicts by facilitating discussions to find mutually beneficial solutions.


13.
A dispute has arisen between the government and a contractor regarding additional costs incurred during the construction of a new warehouse. Negotiations have reached an impasse, and you need to prepare a findings of fact report. How do you approach this task?
 Focus primarily on the government's position, providing detailed justification for why the contractor's claims are invalid based on your understanding of the contract.
 Compile all available documentation related to the dispute, summarize the main arguments from both sides, and present your interpretation of the facts based on the contract terms.
 Prepare a report that favors the government's position entirely, omitting any facts that might support the contractor's claims.
 Briefly outline the dispute and suggest that further negotiations are needed, avoiding taking a definitive stance on the facts.
 Thoroughly review all relevant documents, interview key personnel, objectively present both parties' positions with supporting evidence, and clearly outline the points of contention without bias.


14.
After preparing a findings of fact report on a complex dispute involving changed site conditions in a road construction project, you need to recommend an action to your supervisor. How do you best present your recommendation?
 Provide a detailed analysis of the dispute, present multiple options for resolution, and recommend the option you believe is most appropriate, explaining your reasoning.
 Forward the entire findings of fact report to your supervisor without any additional analysis or recommendation, letting them draw their own conclusions.
 Verbally brief your supervisor on the situation and provide your recommendation informally, without a written document.
 Draft a concise executive summary of the dispute, clearly state your recommendation with supporting rationale, outline potential consequences of different actions, and suggest next steps for resolution.
 Summarize the main points of the dispute and suggest that legal counsel be consulted before any action is taken, without providing a specific recommendation.


15.
You receive an email from a concerned local community leader about the environmental impact of an ongoing military construction project. How do you craft an appropriate written response?
 Respond with a generic form letter about the project's general benefits to the community, without directly addressing the environmental concerns.
 Send a brief acknowledgment of the email, stating that the concern has been noted and will be passed on to the appropriate department for review.
 Compose a professional, empathetic response that acknowledges the concerns, provides factual information about the project's environmental safeguards, offers to arrange a meeting for further discussion, and copy relevant project stakeholders.
 Draft a reply that outlines the project's compliance with environmental regulations, provide contact information for the environmental compliance officer, and offer to address any specific questions they may have.
 Ignore the email, assuming that community concerns don't require a response from your office.


16.
You receive a request from the Contracting Officer for an independent cost estimate on a proposed contract modification for additional security features in a new administrative building. How do you approach this written task?

 Quickly compile available cost data, produce a rough estimate, and send a brief email with the total estimated cost without detailed explanations.
 Inform the Contracting Officer that you're too busy to complete a full estimate and suggest they use the contractor's proposed costs as a basis for negotiation.
 Review similar past projects for cost comparisons, create a basic cost estimate based on this information, and write a report outlining your findings and any assumptions made.
 Forward the request to a junior team member without guidance, asking them to handle the response on your behalf.
 Conduct a thorough analysis using current market data, consult with relevant experts, prepare a detailed cost breakdown with clear methodology explanations, and present your findings in a well-structured report with an executive summary.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙