Position Title
Program Manager (Director, Governmental Affairs)
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
26-NA30-45A-12996766-EN Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current excepted service federal employee at the Department of Energy applying for a CONVERSION (same or lower grade) to a different position in the excepted service?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position. Please provide an answer for all questions.


1.
EN-05 To meet the basic qualifications requirements for EN-05 level (Above GS-15), select the option that best describes your experience background.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the NQ-04 pay band or the GS-15 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.


2.
Please identify the position and time period (include the month/year) in your resume which reflects this experience.



3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙