Position Title
Plant Superintendent
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12921340-M Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 30, 2026 to Apr 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


4.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-14 level, or equivalent, that is directly related to the position, and which has equipped the candidate with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

- Overseeing and directing multiple subordinate professional staff in various disciplines as part of regularly assigned duties while working in a high volume manufacturing facility and ensuring customer satisfaction and organizational goals are met; AND
- Manager level experience promoting, monitoring and developing a safe work environment ensuring compliance with all laws relating to environment, health and safety; AND
- Managing and authorizing a budget and expenditures within a manufacturing environment; AND
- Recommending and or supporting and implementing Lean Manufacturing and other continuous process improvement plans that resulted in more efficient manufacturing processes and equipment; AND
- Manager level experience identifying and implementing business improvement opportunities within a manufacturing environment.

Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience as described above.
 
 I have one full year (52 weeks) or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-14 level as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition described above.


2.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


3.
Select your highest level of experience working as an organizational leader.
 Plant Manager
 Deputy Plant Manager
 Division Manager
 General Foreman
 1st Line Supervisor/Floor Supervisor
 I have no experience as a Manager or as a Supervisor


4.
Select the environment in which your highest managerial and/or supervisory experience was obtained.
 Manufacturing/Production Department
 Production Engineering/Production Support
 Supply
 Finance
 Quality Assurance
 Safety and Health
 Administrative Department
 Other
 None of the above.


5.
Select the size of the workforce that you have managed or supervised.
 250 or more
 100 or more
 40 or more
 Less than 20
 I do not have this experience.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have experience providing management oversight and direction to a staff comprised of subordinate managers and supervisors in a fast-paced high volume manufacturing or production facility or plant?
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you have experience providing management oversight and direction to a staff comprised of subordinate managers and supervisors in a fast-paced high volume manufacturing or production facility or plant?
 Yes
 No


8.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


9.
From the list below, please indicate all duties you have independently performed in a production or manufacturing plant or facility.
 A. Planning and adhering to established daily, weekly or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, priorities, methods and policies.
 B. Delegating responsibility and work with and through others.
 C. Establishing program objectives.
 D. Motivating subordinate supervisors to perform accurate and efficient supervision to employees on a team to produce a quality result.
 E. Instructing, guiding and reviewing the work of others.
 F. Leading a large-sized group of subordinate supervisors and employees.
 G. Leading a medium-sized team of subordinate supervisors and employees.
 H. Meeting daily goals and priorities (directing operations).
 I. Resolving informal grievances.
 J. Conducting safety meetings on a scheduled basis.
 K. Preparing formal performance appraisals/evaluating performance of subordinate supervisors.
 L. Recommending the selection of employees.
 M. Organizing and communicating changes in programs.
 N. Project and contract management.
 O. Administering progressive disciplinary actions to correct performance or behaviors as applicable.
 P. None of the above.


10.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


11.
Please select all of the following you have experience performing.
 A. Organizing tasks for subordinate supervisors using judgment regarding individual abilities.
 B. Evaluating subordinate supervisors’ performance.
 C. Estimating material and manpower needs for specific jobs.
 D. Preparing production and work records and reports.
 E. Explaining work procedures and manuals.
 F. Training supervisors in new procedures.
 G. Motivating subordinate supervisors in supervising employees to perform accurate, efficient production.
 H. Facilitating in face-to-face groups.
 I. Conflict Management.
 J. Managing within a Bargaining Based Unit.
 K. Conducting and documenting formal appraisals and reviews.
 L. Interest based negotiating
 M. Developing personal goals and standards
 N. Planning and facilitating meetings
 O. Corrective and Progressive discipline
 P. None of the above.


12.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


13.
Please choose the following areas you have experience serving as a technical authority to senior leadership.
 A. Monitoring day-to-day operations and ensures coordination of activities with other divisions within your organization.
 B. Technical contract problems regarding purchase requirements
 C. Participating in the development of overall plans to address changes in production volumes over 20%
 D. I have no experience in any of the above areas


14.
From the list below, please choose all of the responses that describe your experience developing and executing a vision for an organization, issue or initiative.
 A. Identifying opportunities for improvement.
 B. Leading organizational change.
 C. Gaining support from management to accept proposed changes.
 D. None of the above.


15.
Choose all the statements that describe your experience managing, directing and administrating process improvement in a manufacturing organization.
 A. I have been responsible for administering and implementing process improvement in a manufacturing environment.
 B. I have worked with others to implement process improvements in a manufacturing environment.
 C. I have had education and training in process improvement but I have not yet used it on the job.
 D. I have not performed any of the tasks above.


16.
Please specify where in your resume this experience is documented (ex. employer, job title, time employed).


17.
Select the response(s) that describe your oral communication experience.
 A. Serving as a program lead on job related issues
 B. Initiating and maintaining contact with individuals outside the organization.
 C. Persuading others to take a particular course of action.
 D. Persuading others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints.
 E. Exchanging information and discussing issues and options available with program managers.
 F. Participating in and representing the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 G. Making informal presentations to co-workers on management/supervisory issues
 H. Making formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides, graphics, flip charts, and/or overheads.
 I. Making formal presentations to management or management teams
 J. Designing and delivering formal courses of training or instruction using a variety of electronic media.
 K. Protecting and relaying sensitive and/or controversial information to only appropriate parties
 L. None of the above


18.
Please specify where you have shown this experience in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


19.
Select the responses that describes your experience interpreting and communicating policies, procedures, regulations, program research and policy analysis with internal and external stakeholders in writing. Select all that apply.
 A. I have experience developing and implementing a communications strategy for policies, procedures, business plans, and Departmental activities.
 B. I have experience preparing written reports and presentations, with collateral materials to support the understanding of policies, procedures and regulations (i.e. graphs, charts and reports that are clear concise and effective).
 C. I have edited reports for accuracy, adherence to policy, organization of material, clarity of expression, and appropriateness for the intended audience.
 D. I have experience developing analytical documents evaluating programs or policies.
 E. I have experience developing policy guidance notices, handbooks, and procedures.
 F. I have experience evaluating, approving or rejecting written work products of others.
 G. I have developed briefing papers or talking points for senior managers.
 H. I have drafted reports, memoranda, and correspondence for signature by higher-level officials.
 I. None of the above.


20.
Select the responses that apply to your oral communications experience. Select all that apply.
 A. I have regularly served as a program representative in dealing with managers and employees within the areas serviced. This included acquiring, clarifying, or exchanging facts, and information needed to complete assignments.
 B. I have regularly justified, persuaded, negotiated, or resolved matters involving significant or controversial policy or program issues. This included communicating effectively and harmoniously with a variety of internal and external individuals or groups (e.g., representatives for the office, department, or other agencies).
 C. I have regularly communicated with peers and supervisors in which the purpose was to influence, motivate, or persuade them about a policy or issue of which they are skeptical of or disagree with you.
 D. I have regularly served as a program representative and participated in discussions in which the purpose was to plan, coordinate, or consult on work efforts or to resolve specific business problems. This has included influencing or motivating individuals or groups who are working toward mutual goals and who have basically cooperative attitudes.
 E. None of the above.


21.
As a manager, it is very important to be able to communicate and develop subordinates through various coaching, grievance and complaint processes. Please select the areas that you have had direct experience.
 A. Facilitating in face-to-face groups
 B. Conflict Management
 C. Managing within a Bargaining Based Unit
 D. Conduct and document formal appraisals and reviews
 E. Interest based negotiating
 F. Developing personal goals and standards
 G. Plan and facilitate meetings
 H. Corrective and Progressive discipline
 I. None of the above


22.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


23.
Do you have experience working with an organization's Equal Employment Opportunity program or organizational policies to create an inclusive work environment that ensures the fair and respectful treatment of all employees as well as equal access to opportunities and resources?
 Yes
 No


24.
Please select the areas below that you have experience with:
 A. Civility Training Program
 B. Inclusion and Diversity Program
 C. Diversity Recruitment Program
 D. Guiding Principles Policy
 E. Mediation or Alternate Dispute Resolution Program
 F. None of the Above


25.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


26.
Please choose all of the below duties you have experience with:
 A. Developing and / or monitoring Preventative Maintenance schedules
 B. Team Building
 C. Creating and managing shift / scheduling rosters
 D. Determining work requirements and scheduling overtime to meet deadlines
 E. Establishing workload priorities based on project importance and manning availability
 F. Determine equipment and material requirements for installation, maintenance and repairs
 G. Relaying and explaining instructions to other employees
 H. Time Management
 I. Risk Management Analysis
 J. Implementation of a Project Plan
 K. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


27.
Do you have experience working to ensure all systems and work processes performed are covered by internal controls?
 Yes
 No


28.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


29.
Do you have experience working to ensure appropriate precautions are taken to prevent fraud, waste, and misuse of resources?
 Yes
 No


30.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


31.
Do you have experience ensuring work is performed in compliance with all OSHA regulations?
 Yes
 No


32.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


33.
Do you have experience overseeing and supporting a safety and health program adhering to the agency rules, regulations, orders and other responsible authorities with respect to the Occupational Safety Program?
 Yes
 No


34.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


35.
Do you have experience making decisions that have plant-wide impact/results by applying technical knowledge of manufacturing processes, analyzing production problems, and calculating risks as part of your regular assigned duties?
 Yes
 No


36.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume. (By indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙