Position Title
HUMAN RESOURCES SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
GU-12896592-AR-26-010 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you currently a member of the Guam National Guard, eligible for employment under Title 32 status?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently serving in the Guam Army National Guard in the military grade of E-4 through E-6?
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you held a position at the GS-09 grade level (or equivalent) for at least 52 weeks?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level performing Federal Human Resources work in compensation, employee benefits, HRIS, and/or performance management?
 Yes
 No


5.
Applicants may qualify for this position based on education in lieu of specialized experience. At the GS-11 level, qualifying education must consist of a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, in a field related to Human Resources Management, Business Administration, Public Administration, or a related filed.

Do you wish to be considered based on qualifying education in lieu of specialized experience?

 Yes - I will submit transcripts to support qualification.
 No - I qualify based on specialized experience.


6.
Select the HR functional areas in which you have performed substantive Federal HR duties:
 A. Compensation (pay setting, incentives, premium pay, HPR)
 B. Employee Benefits (retirement, FEHB, FEGLI, TSP counseling)
 C. HRIS/Automated Systems (DCPDS or equivalent personnel systems)
 D. Performance Management (appraisals, awards, PIPs)


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Have you independently applied and interpreted Federal HR regulations (e.g., OPM, DoD, NGB, or agency guidance) to resolve personnel actions or employee inquiries?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙