Position Title
Advanced Medical Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13056982-26-PAV Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Welcome to the application assessment for the Advanced Medical Support Assistant (AMSA) Health Administration Service (HAS), GS-0679-06 position within the Veterans Health Administration. This assessment is designed to measure your specialized experience, technical knowledge, and supervisory competencies required for success in this role.   
Instructions for Completion:
Review each question and scenario thoroughly before drafting your response.  
Your answers must clearly reflect your experience, knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) specifically aligned with the GS-06 level. Use concrete examples from your professional background where applicable.  
Answer all sections of the assessment. Incomplete submissions may result in an ineligible rating.  
Provide clear, professional, and detailed responses demonstrating both technical sterile processing expertise and first-line supervisory capabilities.


1.
Are you a citizen of the United States (U.S.)? 

Non citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens according to 38 U.S.C 7407(a).
 Yes, I am a U.S. citizen.
 No, I am not a U.S. citizen, but understand that non-citizens may be appointed only when qualified citizens are not available.


In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.


2.
Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required experience, education and/or an equivalent combination of experience and education (for entry level in which both education and experience are acceptable).


3.
You must meet at least one of the following criteria to qualify for at the entry level for this position: (1) Six months experience of clerical office or other work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needs to perform the duties of the position; or (2) Two years above high school; or (3) Equivalent combination of experience and education are qualifying for entry level for which both education and experience are acceptable. (Transcripts required if using education to qualify).


Do you possess at least one of the requirements as noted above? Please choose the answer below that best describes your experience.

Important Note Regarding Education and Transcripts: If you are using education to qualify for this position, transcripts must be submitted with your application package.
Note: Experience must be clearly demonstrated and detailed within your resume to verify that you meet the grade-level requirements.
 Yes, I possess at least 6 months of clerical, office or other work experience that indicates my ability to perform the duties of this position.
 Yes, I possess at least 1 year of education above high school. (Transcript required)
 Yes, I possess an equivalent combination of experience and education. (Transcript required)
 No, but I have a high school education.
 I do not possess the experience or education requirements as noted above.


The following question pertains to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required specialized experience to qualify for the advertised grade level.


4.
At least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level that shows you possess the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully carry out the duties of this position. Examples of qualifying experience includes, but is not limited to: scheduling, canceling, re-scheduling patient's appointments and/or consults; entering no-show information; monitoring the electronic wait list; preparing for clinic visits; monitoring both inpatient and outpatient appointments for areas of responsibility; ensuring encounter forms are completed in order to obtain appropriate workload credit; verifying and updating demographics and insurance information; processing all emergency and non-emergency transfers to other VA facilities or private hospitals; performing basic eligibility, co-pays and preauthorization requirements for specific coverage (i.e., TRICARE, sharing agreements, etc.); etc. References: VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G-45.

Do you have at least 1 year of the required experience as noted above?

Note: Specialized experience must be clearly demonstrated and detailed within your resume to verify that you meet the grade-level requirements.
 Yes
 No


5.

Please indicate whether you possess the following required KSAs for the Advanced Medical Support Assistant position:

Advanced knowledge of the technical health care process, including scheduling across interdisciplinary coordinated care and/or care in the community models as it relates to access to care.
Advanced knowledge of policies and procedures associated with interdisciplinary coordinated care delivery and/or care in the community that affect patient flow and administrative functions (such as appointment cycles, outside referrals, follow-up care, overbooking, provider availability).
Advanced knowledge of medical terminology used by clinicians.
Ability to collaborate and communicate with a wide range of medical clinicians across multiple disciplines (such as medical doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers, clinical pharmacists, and nursing staff) to accomplish team goals.
Ability to independently set priorities and organize work to meet deadlines while complying with processes, policies, and regulations.
Ability to communicate tactfully and effectively, electronically, by phone, in person, and in writing, with internal and external customers.

Note: Please demonstrate the required KSAs are clearly shown in your resume. They help verify you meet the qualifications for the position.
 Yes, I possess all of the KSAs listed above.
 No, I do not possess all of the KSAs listed above.


6.
Verification Statement. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


To ensure your application is fully considered, please make sure your resume includes the following:

- A complete work history, including job titles, duties, start and end dates (month/year), hours worked per week, and salary for each position.- Detailed descriptions of experience that clearly show how you meet the specialized experience requirements listed in the announcement.- Any relevant certifications, licenses, education, or training.- All federal experience must include pay plan, series, and grade level.- Use clear, concise language focused on duties and accomplishments.- Ensure your resume reflects full-time or part-time status for each role.- Upload all required documents listed in the announcement to avoid disqualification.




Applicants currently serving or previously served in the Federal civilian workforce must submit SF-50(s) with their application.

Please include:

- Your most recent non-award SF-50 showing your current or highest grade, step, tenure, and position information.- If you have held a higher grade previously, also submit the SF-50 documenting that grade (non-award).- Ensure your SF-50 displays actual appointment information-awards or mass actions cannot be accepted to verify grade or tenure.- If applying for a position with time-in-grade requirements, submit SF-50(s) that clearly show you meet those requirements.

Failure to provide the appropriate SF-50 documentation may result in ineligibility or lowered consideration.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙