Position Title
Supervisory Sanctions Compliance Officer (Chief, Sanctions Compliance Engagement)
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12898045 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 04, 2026 to Mar 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current Departmental Offices employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current DO employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.
Current DO employee with reinstatement eligibility to the competitive service (i.e., previously held a permanent, competitive, career appointment or career-conditional appointment, if within applicable time frames).
Current DO employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current DO employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position is defined as experience and a working knowledge in all of the following:
- Experience liaising with representatives of the regulated financial community as well as federal, state, or foreign government officials, including senior officials; AND
- Experience with U.S. economic sanctions and embargo programs including relevant sections of the Code of Federal Regulations, Executive Orders, and sanctions legislation; AND
- Experience with banking operations, correspondent banking, and interdiction software as well as strategies and methods for complying with U.S. sanctions in the regulated financial community; AND
- Experience applying regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) or related laws concerning economic sanctions to provide practical guidance; AND
- Experience conducting financial investigations independently and/or in conjunction with law enforcement, regulators, or government officials.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you meet the Specialized Experience for the GS-15 as described?
 Yes
 No


2.
From the choices below, please select areas in which you have specific subject matter knowledge or experience.
 A. International Banking
 B. International Trade/Import-Export Transactions
 C. Trade Controls
 D. Securities Industry
 E. Insurance Industry
 F. Foreign Economic Policy
 G. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you have knowledge of and demonstrated experience with payment messaging systems (example: Fedwire, ACH, IAT, CHPS, SWIFT)?
 Yes
 No


4.
(Branch) Provide a brief description of your specific experience, education, knowledge, and/or training that supports your choice to the previous question. Please identify the time periods and positions within your resume which validate your level of experience.


5.
From the list below, please select the U.S. sanctions compliance functions with which you have experience performing.
 A. Evaluating financial transactions to determine the applicability of U.S. sanctions regulations.
 B. Monitoring suspicious activities and reviewing corporate and banking records/transactions to determine the applicability of U.S. sanctions regulations.
 C. Preparing reports of examination findings and memoranda to supervisors and management.
 D. Liaising with representatives of the banking and commercial communities to benefit examination processes.
 E. Coordinating with officials in government agencies to establish better communication and relationships.
 F. None of the above.


6.
. From the choices below, please select areas in which you have demonstrated subject matter knowledge and experience.
 A. Complex international trade and financial transactions
 B. OFAC related sanctions regulations, laws, and Executive Orders
 C. United Nations Security Council Resolutions
 D. Foreign policy and national security consideration surrounding sanctions programs
 E. Corporate operations to conduct reviews for compliance with OFAC regulations
 F. None of the above.


7.
Please select all of the following in which you have demonstrated knowledge and experience of the OFAC examination procedures.
 A. Federal Reserve Board of Governors
 B. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 C. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 D. National Credit Union Administration
 E. State and U.S. territory banking regulators
 F. Securities and Exchange Commission
 G. Other Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
 H. None of the above.


8.
Select the statement(s) that describe the program management activities you have performed as a regular, recurring part of your job.
 A. Served as a spokesperson for the organization on program or project issues to a variety of stakeholder groups and federal, state and local agencies.
 B. Served as a spokesperson for the organization on program or project issues to the media.
 C. Developed and issued guidance or policy statements on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues for the organization.
 D. Served and/or facilitated on panels, committees or task forces on technical, programmatic, and/or professional issues.
 E. Provided guidance to other agency representatives or private industry on technical, programmatic, or professional issues that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 F. Facilitated workshops or partnering sessions between organizational entities.
 G. Mediated or facilitated problem resolution between organizational entities or technical groups in a formal group setting.
 H. Built and fostered relationships with external customers, partners, stakeholders that affect the scope of programs or projects.
 I. Presented, advocated, or negotiated specific mission goals and needs with other organizational entities.
 J. Presented briefings and formal presentations to senior management of external entities on policy, program, organizational, or project issues.
 K. Prepared written reports on organizational program/project status.
 L. Facilitated solutions on controversial issues affecting the scope of programs or projects with the public.
 M. Organized and conducted public meetings.
 N. None of the above.


9.
Indicate which of the following best describes your experience in providing substantive expertise to banking and trade professionals, or government officials, about financial and trade regulations.
 I independently and routinely provide guidance to financial/trade professionals, or government officials about U.S. sanctions and embargo regulations.
 I provide guidance to financial/trade, professionals, or government officials, about other topics relevant to the Treasury Department.
 None of the above.


10.
From the list below, select each of the outreach functions and activities with which you have experience performing.
 A. Writing articles
 B. Giving speeches
 C. Participating in industry dialogue
 D. Coordinating with other government agencies
 E. Conducting training presentations.
 F. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Do you have expertise with regard to the development and implementation of strategy documents, memoranda and other guidance in accordance with national security and foreign policy priorities?
 Yes
 No


12.
Which best describes your experience briefing and verbally communicating with high-level government officials and/or industry representatives on financial issues regarding U.S. economic sanctions and embargo programs, anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regulations?
 I have delivered complex technical presentations to executives, management officials, and professional groups on these topics.
 I have delivered formal technical presentations to executives and professional groups on these topics.
 I have delivered formal presentations to managers and employees on these topics.
 I have delivered technical information to work groups.
 I have limited experience delivering technical information.
 I have no experience in applying U.S. regulations, Executive orders, and statutes to facts.


13.
I have written a variety of clear, cogent, accurate, and well-organized products on issues related to economic sanctions and export controls programs in order to convey the results of research and analysis representing varying points of view. Examples include: legal briefs or memoranda; disclosures to administrative agencies; decision memoranda, regarding complex legal, regulatory, and/or public policy issues; research analyses, briefing papers, and/or options analyses regarding the law or regulations; evaluation of legislative proposals; and/or articles covering a complex legal, regulatory, and/or public policy issue for a major national or trade publication.
 As a principal job responsibility, wrote a variety of authoritative analytical products: applying legal authorities, regulations, and policy to specific facts, assessing complex legal and public policy issues of national and/or international significance to advise senior decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to national security, economic sanctions, export controls or international trade, and international regulatory matters and included the full range of products described above.
 Routinely wrote a variety of analytical products: applying specific facts to legal authorities, regulations, and policy to specific facts, assessing complex legal and public policy issues of national and/or international significance for publication or dissemination to decision-makers in the public or private sector with varying levels of expertise. These products were related to national security, economic sanctions, export controls or international trade, and international regulatory matters and included most of the products described above.
 Frequently wrote a variety of analytical products: applying legal authorities, regulations, and policy to specific facts, assessing complex legal and public policy issues related to national security, economic sanctions, export controls or international trade, and international regulatory matters for publication or dissemination to a variety of audiences with varying levels of expertise. These products included at least three of the examples described above.
 None of the above.


14.
As a lead team member, team leader, project manager or supervisor I have evaluated the analytical products and services of others to meet the quality standards of an organization (e.g., management or peer review). This includes making suggestions to improve this material and being able to articulate clearly the problems and concerns about the product as well as suggestions for remedies where appropriate.
 As a major job responsibility, evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services on: the application of legal authorities and regulations to specific facts, and public policy issues, related to the compliance of economic sanctions and embargo programs for the preparation of recommendations and/or documents that demonstrated compliance with established legal or regulatory standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Was responsible for suggesting revisions to improve content and organization of this material and for ensuring its consistency with standards. This experience was in an organization devoted to the provision of analytical public policy products and services directed at high-level decision makers.
 Routinely evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services on: the application of legal authorities and regulations to specific facts, and public policy issues, related to compliance of economic sanctions and embargo programs for compliance with established legal or regulatory standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material. Offered suggestions to improve material. This experience was in an organization devoted to the provision of analytical products and services directed at decision makers.
 Occasionally evaluated and critically reviewed diverse analytical products and services on: the application of legal authorities and regulations to specific facts, and public policy issues, related to economic sanctions and embargo programs for compliance with established legal or regulatory standards and made independent judgments on acceptability of material.
 None of the above.


15.
Select the duties you have performed on a regular and recurring basis as a team leader or supervisor.
 A. Oversaw, directed or developed work to be accomplished by subordinates including setting priorities and preparing schedules for the completion of work and adjusted as needed.
 B. Assigned work to subordinates based on priorities, consideration of the difficulty of assignments, and the capabilities of employees.
 C. Developed performance standards and evaluated employees' work.
 D. Gave advice, counsel or instruction to employees on program specific, technical, and/or administrative matters.
 E. Interviewed candidates and made recommendations/selections to fill vacant position(s).
 F. Resolved office conflicts through meetings and/or by providing written guidance.
 G. Resolved office conflicts through mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolution.
 H. Coached, counseled and/or disciplined employees on performance and/or conduct issues.
 I. Developed performance improvement plans.
 J. Recognized and rewarded employees for their contributions.
 K. Have no managerial/supervisory experience, but have been designated as a team leader, assisting the immediate supervisor with assignment of tasks.
 L. I have not performed any of the listed supervisory duties.


16.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to manage a staff or team and other resources within a large, multi-disciplined organization, including the ability to set program goals, prepare budgets, and establish strategies in support of agency missions.
 I have extensive practical experience in the leadership and management of a, multi-disciplined organization, staff or team, and in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.
 I have limited experience in the management of an organization, staff, or team, accumulated primarily in an acting or detail capacity and with limited responsibility for resource management or staff.
 I have some experience in leading teams and/or managing projects in support of specific agency objectives, but without general responsibility for staff or other resources.
 I have no experience in the management of a large, multi-disciplined organization or in setting goals, developing strategies and managing resources in support of agency missions.


17.
Choose the statements that best describe your ability to strategically manage personnel resources.
 A. I communicate the vision clearly and link the steps in the process to the overall vision.
 B. I create a sense of urgency to help spark the initial motivation to get things moving.
 C. I convince people that change is necessary and build coalitions with key individuals.
 D. I create and identify short term “wins” in route to the overall vision to keep the team motivated and focused.
 E. I have not implemented any changes.


18.
Choose the statement below that best describes your experience building coalitions and partnerships.
 I routinely engage and recruit the support of external agencies to address common goals as a force multiplier to overcome resource deficiencies.
 I engage with other US government agencies within my area of responsibility for the purpose of de-conflicting investigations and professional liaison.
 I have worked with personnel from my Public Information and Legislative Affairs offices to convey accomplishments and information regarding US sanctions.
 I have no experience in this area.


19.
Choose the statement below that best describes your experience influencing others while building consensus.
 When building support for my ideas, I routinely seek input from my affected employees or colleagues, to give them a sense of “ownership” in the decision-making process and thereby have them more willing to accept my opinion.
 When influencing others to adopt my ideas, I encourage candid, professional discussion to flesh out the idea and uncover potential risks or improvements.
 As a supervisor or team member, I am often asked to make decisions. Delaying decisions, in order to build consensus, is a sign of weakness.
 I have no experience in this area.


20.
Which of the following best reflects your ability to analyze complex issues and identify appropriate and/or innovative solutions?
 I have analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions under close supervision.
 I have assisted others in the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions.
 I have participated on a team that analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions.
 I have independently analyzed complex issues and identified appropriate solutions.
 I have led others charged with the analysis of complex issues and identification of appropriate solutions.
 I have no work experience analyzing complex issues and identifying appropriate solutions.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙