Position Title
Management Assistant (OA) (ECE)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCKC-26-13002614-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 01, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-05 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-05 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


2.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-06 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-06 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.
 None of the above apply.


3.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management Assistant (OA) position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
GS-6: Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Management Assistant (OA) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
GS-7: Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Management Assistant (OA) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Typing Requirement: This position requires a qualified typist. A qualified typist can type 40 words per minute based on a 5 minute sample with three or fewer errors. Are you a qualified typist?

 Yes
 No


4.
Which of the following describes your experience searching for information? Select all that apply.

 A. I have extracted information using software programs.
 B. I have extracted information from manual logs or historical files.
 C. I have extracted information from tracking systems.
 D. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


5.
What is your level of experience accurately retrieving and extracting information by searching various sources such as databases, records, and manuals?

 I have education in performing this task but have not performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I have supervised performance of this task, or I am normally consulted by others to assist them with this task due to my expertise.
 I do not have any of the experience listed above.


6.
Which of the following describes your experience preparing reports? Select all that apply.

 A. I have prepared statistical reports.
 B. I have extracted reports from a database.
 C. I have compiled data into a prescribed format.
 D. I have reviewed reports for conformity with established formatting procedures.
 E. I have reviewed reports for accuracy.
 F. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


7.
Which of the following describes your experience with records management? Select all that apply.

 I have updated records and manuals.
 I have purged old files and records.
 I have shelved and archived records.
 I have established and/or maintained a filing system in a professional setting.
 I have assembled files.
 I have maintained a filing system using a prescribed procedure.
 I do not have any of the experience listed above.


8.
Which software applications do you have experience with? Select all that apply.

 A. Microsoft Word or other word processing software.
 B. Microsoft Excel or other spreadsheet software.
 C. Microsoft Access or other data management software.
 D. Microsoft PowerPoint or other presentation software.
 E. Microsoft Publisher or other publishing software.
 F. Microsoft Project or other project management software.
 G. Microsoft Outlook or other email and calendar application.
 H. Adobe Acrobat or other document formatting application.
 I. Lexis/Westlaw
 J. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


9.
Select your level of experience assisting with an operational review or audit.

 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


10.
Which of the following have you performed regarding arranging meetings or conferences? Select all that apply.

 A. I have arranged meetings, including reserving a location, confirming dates, notifying participants, and acquiring required supplies and equipment.
 B. I have used a reservation system to reserve a conference room.
 C. I have arranged travel, including securing authorization for expense reimbursement for travelers.
 D. I have drafted a meeting agenda.
 E. I have drafted presentation materials for a meeting or conference.
 F. I have assembled handouts or other materials for a meeting or conference.
 G. I have recorded and distributed meeting minutes and action items.
 H. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


11.
Which of the following describes your experience in oral communication. Select all that apply.

 A. I have experience discussing technical issues and/or giving oral presentations regarding technical issues.
 B. I have conducted face-to-face interviews to collect information related to specific programs.
 C. I have assisted senior staff by conducting segments of interviews.
 D. I have taken courses in public speaking.
 E. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


12.
Which of the following describes your writing experience? Select all that apply.

 A. I have prepared written materials with accuracy, clarity, and logical order.
 B. I have prepared written materials with proper grammar, punctuation, and spelling.
 C. I have prepared and assembled a variety of written documents utilizing various software applications.
 D. I have furnished correspondence from a rough draft that required extensive editing.
 E. I have inserted charts, symbols, or tables within a text document.
 F. I have produced documents in compliance with a prescribed format.
 G. I have written summaries of information extracted from a report.
 H. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


13.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience.

 I have experience preparing, reviewing and proofreading correspondence or other documents for grammar, spelling, punctuation, format, tone, and conformance to office policies and procedures.
 I have experience preparing correspondence or other documents and proofreading for spelling, grammar, punctuation and format.
 I have experience proofreading correspondence for spelling and grammar.
 I have experience typing correspondence from a rough draft.
 I do not have any of the experience listed above.


14.
Which of the following tasks do you have experience with? Select all that apply.

 A. I have received, opened, and time stamped incoming mail or faxes.
 B. I have reviewed and distributed incoming mail or faxes to the appropriate recipient.
 C. I have received requests for information and advised on the proper channels for which the request should go.
 D. I have obtained the status of an information request to ensure the request was completed timely.
 E. I do not have any of the experience listed above.


15.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience in providing support for an office?

 I have limited experience in this area.
 I have significant experience and consider it among my strengths.
 I have extensive experience in this area and have provided support for an office in a professional environment.
 I do not have any of the experience listed above.


16.
Integrity Certification: Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙