Position Title
SAPR VICTIM ADVOCATE
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-089 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1

Failure to provide all the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.


1.
Do you possess an active Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) Certification?
 Yes, I possess an active Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) Certification and I have provided proof of certification with my application package.
 No, I do not possess a current Victim Advocate certification under the Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) Certification.


2.
Select the statement that best describes your years of experience providing 24/7 response to sexual assault victims.
 I have 5 or more years of experience
 I have 3-5 years of experience
 I have 2-3 years of experience
 I have 1-2 years of experience.
 I have less than 1 but greater than 0 years of experience
 I do not have experience providing 24/7 response to sexual assault victims


3.
Do you possess a four-year degree in Behavioral Health, Social Science, or Criminal Justice and two years of experience that demonstrates acquired knowledge of one or more of the Behavioral Health or Social Sciences equivalent to a major in the field OR an appropriate combination of education and experience that demonstrates possession of knowledge and skill equivalent to that gained in the above?
 Yes, I possess the above
 No, I do not possess the above.


4.
Choose the statement that describes your years of experience working with victims of sexual assault, ie: providing victim advocacy and care?
 I have 5 or more years of experience
 I have 3-5 years of experience
 I have 2-3 years of experience
 I have 1-2 years of experience.
 I have less than 1 but greater than 0 years of experience
 I do not have experience working with victims of sexual assault, ie: providing victim advocacy and care.


5.
Please select the statement that describes your experience with the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) program.
 I have SAPR experience with DoN.
 I have SAPR experience with DoD.
 I have SAPR experience with military.(
 I have SAPR experience in private sector
 I do not have experience with SAPR.


6.
Do you have experience providing training on sexual assault prevention and response?
 I have 5 or more years of experience.
 I have 3-5 years of experience
 I have 2-3 years of experience.
 I have 1-2 years of experience
 I have less than 1 but greater than 0 years of experience
 I do not have experience in providing training on sexual assault prevention and response.


7.
Please select your level of education in the following fields: Behavioral Health, Social Science, or Criminal Justice.
 Master's Degree
 Bachelor's Degree
 Associate's Degree
 Certifications in the field.
 Related higher education. Ex: An unrelated degree but demonstrated coursework in the field.
 I do not possess a degree, certification or related higher education in the fields listed.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙