Position Title
Program Manager (Chief of Staff)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12957445-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 11, 2026 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of Army Civilian Employees

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Department of Army Civilian Employees'. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA).  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS). This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee in one of the categories described above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Department of Army Civilian Employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager (Chief of Staff) position with Department of the Army Corps of Engineers. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Program Manager (Chief of Staff) at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: (1) serving as a supervisor in a complex organization, providing recommendations based on research, interviews, and knowledge supported by law and regulations; (2) decision making under high-level, high-priority, and urgent situations; (3) coordinating resolutions of broad and difficult program and policy issues; (4) develop content for detailed correspondence, memoranda, and reports; AND (5) provide written and verbal communications delivering public announcements, presentations and briefs. (ALL five must be thoroughly and clearly addressed in your resume to be referred to the selection panel).
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. There are no right or wrong answers. Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
Three months into the fiscal year, a higher headquarters directive imposes a 5% budget cut on your District's support office operations. As Chief of Staff, you must implement this cut with minimal impact on mission-critical functions. The chiefs of the various support offices (e.g., Public Affairs, Security, Logistics) have all argued that their operations are essential and cannot sustain a cut. What is your next course of action?
 Schedule a meeting with all support office chiefs to collectively negotiate where the 5% reduction can be absorbed, facilitating a group consensus on a path forward to present to the Commander.
 Direct each office to submit a list of functions ranked by mission criticality, then analyze this data to develop several district-wide reduction options with impact statements for the Commander's decision.
 Review the previous fiscal year's spending data to identify the offices with the highest discretionary fund balances and apply the largest percentage of the cuts to them to avoid mission impact.
 Implement an immediate, equitable 5% across-the-board budget reduction for every support office, and task the chiefs with managing the impact and reporting any significant operational risks.
 Inform the Commander that the budget cut cannot be implemented without severe mission failure and formally request an exemption from the higher headquarters directive before taking any other action.


2.
The Command Group has decided to implement a new digital dashboard to track key performance indicators across all support offices. The project is in its early stages, and there is no dedicated funding or project manager assigned. The Commander has tasked you, as Chief of Staff, with getting the initiative started. What is your most appropriate first step?
 Announce the new dashboard initiative in the next staff-wide meeting to build early momentum and ask for volunteers from various offices to contribute ideas and support for the project's development.
 Postpone any action on the initiative until the next fiscal planning cycle, when a formal project with a dedicated budget and a project manager can be properly established through official channels.
 Direct the Internal Review office to take the lead on the project, tasking them with developing a full implementation plan and timeline since they are familiar with performance metrics.
 Form a temporary working group with representatives from IT and key support offices to define the project scope, identify technical requirements, and draft a charter to present to leadership for approval.
 Issue initial guidance to the IT department to begin researching available software solutions while you work with the finance office to identify potential funding sources for the new dashboard project.


3.
You observe that two of your direct reports, both highly competent office chiefs, have a strained working relationship that is causing communication delays and hindering collaboration between their teams. This is beginning to affect the quality of cross-functional projects. How do you address this situation?
 Issue a formal memorandum to both chiefs outlining your expectations for professional collaboration and directing them to resolve their differences and improve their teams' coordination immediately.
 Instruct the chief of the office that is most impacted by the delays to develop a proposed solution for the communication problem and present it to you for review and potential implementation.
 Reassign the responsibilities for a major upcoming cross-functional project to a third office chief to bypass the conflict and ensure the immediate task is completed without further delay.
 Advise both chiefs that if their professional relationship does not improve on its own, you will be forced to report the situation to Human Resources for formal mediation or other corrective action.
 Meet with each chief individually to understand their perspectives on the issue, then facilitate a joint meeting to establish clear communication protocols and shared goals for their teams' interactions.


4.
Six months ago, the Commander approved a new strategic plan for the District. As Chief of Staff, you are responsible for monitoring its implementation. You notice that one of the key initiatives, led by the Security Office, is significantly behind schedule and key performance indicators are not being met. What is your most appropriate course of action?
 Discuss the lack of progress during the next weekly leadership meeting, highlighting the issue to the Commander and other office chiefs to solicit suggestions for getting the initiative on schedule.
 Schedule a review meeting with the Security Chief to analyze the root causes for the delay, review resource allocation, and collaboratively develop a corrective action plan with a revised timeline.
 Direct the Internal Review office to conduct an immediate audit of the Security Office's management of the initiative to identify deficiencies and report their findings directly back to you.
 Inform the Commander that the Security Office is failing to meet its objectives and recommend that leadership of the initiative be reassigned to another office to ensure its successful completion.
 Send a formal request for a status report to the Security Chief, asking for a detailed explanation for the delays and a written plan for how they will get the initiative back on track.


5.
A new USACE-wide policy on "Future-Ready Workplaces" has been released. The guidance is broad, focusing on high-level goals like "enhancing flexibility" and "promoting digital transformation." The District Commander has asked you to translate this into specific, actionable direction for your support offices. What is your best approach?

 Host a series of town hall meetings for all employees to discuss the new policy, gather feedback and ideas from the workforce, and then use that input to formulate specific directions for the staff.
 Establish a task force with members from HR, IT, and operations to analyze the policy, assess its impact on the District, and propose a phased implementation plan with concrete actions and metrics.
 Direct each support office chief to independently read the new policy and submit a report on how their office plans to align its operations with the new "Future-Ready Workplaces" goals.
 Author a detailed guidance memorandum that interprets the broad goals, assigning specific responsibilities to each support office chief and setting initial deadlines for them to report back on their progress.
 Forward the USACE-wide policy to all staff via email without additional comment, trusting that the professional staff and their supervisors will be able to interpret and implement the guidance as needed.


6.
During a major flood-fighting operation, new data from river gauges indicates the flood crest will be significantly higher and arrive 12 hours sooner than originally predicted. This new information invalidates the current response plan that your teams are actively executing. What is your immediate priority as Chief of Staff?
 Request the data analysis team to double-check the new forecast for accuracy before making any significant changes to the ongoing response operations to avoid causing unnecessary disruption and confusion.
 Convene an emergency meeting with key leaders to disseminate the new data, immediately halt operations based on the old forecast, and rapidly develop a revised operational plan based on the new threat.
 Continue executing the current plan while sending out a small, secondary team to begin preliminary preparations for the higher flood crest, allowing for a more gradual adjustment to the new information.
 Direct the operations chief to immediately begin adjusting their field activities based on the new forecast while you simultaneously work to formally update the written response plan and brief the Commander.
 Send an email notification to all staff about the updated forecast and instruct them to use their best judgment in adapting their individual tasks and responsibilities to the changing situation as needed.


7.
You are two weeks away from a major deadline for a district-wide internal controls inspection. Suddenly, the District is tasked by higher headquarters to lead a high-visibility, short-notice regional exercise. The Commander has stated that both tasks are top priorities. How do you manage this?
 Formally request an extension from the inspecting agency for the internal controls deadline, explaining the new, conflicting high-priority tasking from higher headquarters and its impact on your resources.
 Assemble your key office chiefs to assess workload capacity, re-delegate tasks where possible, and develop a consolidated plan that adjusts timelines and resources for both priorities to present to the Commander.
 Instruct all staff to work overtime as needed to ensure both the inspection preparation and the exercise planning are completed on their original schedules without any compromise on quality or timeliness.
 Personally take charge of planning the regional exercise while directing your deputy to ensure the internal controls inspection team continues its work on schedule, and you will sync with them daily.
 Inform the Commander that it is impossible to do both tasks simultaneously and ask them to choose which one is the "real" priority so you can direct all available staff resources to that single effort.


8.
The IT department, which you oversee, has proposed a plan to standardize all office software to a single platform to improve security and reduce costs. Several office chiefs strongly object, arguing that the specialized software their teams use is critical for their unique missions. How do you proceed?
 Ask the IT department to conduct a more detailed cost-benefit analysis that includes the potential loss of productivity from the objecting offices to see if the standardization is still worthwhile.
 Pause the standardization plan and facilitate a series of meetings between IT and the objecting chiefs to evaluate the mission-critical needs and explore potential exceptions or alternative solutions.
 Override the objections from the office chiefs and direct the implementation of the standardization plan, explaining that security and cost-efficiency are the Commander's top priorities for the district.
 Approve the IT department's standardization plan but grant a one-year waiver to the objecting offices, with the requirement that they develop a transition plan during that time.
 Tell the objecting office chiefs that the decision is final but that they are free to submit a formal appeal through their chain of command if they disagree with the IT department's new policy.


9.
You have just taken over as Chief of Staff. Your predecessor had a very hands-off, delegative leadership style. You prefer a more engaged, hands-on approach. Your direct reports, the office chiefs, are accustomed to a high degree of autonomy. What is the best way to introduce your leadership style?
 Maintain the existing hands-off style for the first few months to observe the team's dynamics and build rapport, then gradually introduce more engaged practices over time as you see fit.
 Schedule individual meetings with each office chief to discuss their communication preferences and operational styles, and clearly articulate your own expectations for reporting and engagement going forward.
 Implement a new set of detailed weekly reporting requirements for all office chiefs to ensure you have the level of information you require to operate in your preferred hands-on management style.
 Announce your leadership philosophy at your first staff meeting, explaining that you will be more directly involved in operations, and begin implementing your new style immediately to establish a clear standard.
 Begin implementing your new style immediately to establish a clear standard with no introduction to your leadership philosophy.


10.
A supervisor comes to you for advice. They have an employee who is consistently underperforming but has a temporary medical condition. The supervisor is unsure how to proceed with a formal Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) without violating HR policy related to medical issues. What guidance do you provide?
 Recommend that the supervisor delay any formal performance action until the employee's temporary medical condition has fully resolved to avoid any potential appearance of discrimination or legal complication.
 Advise the supervisor to document the performance issues separately from the medical condition and to consult with HR to ensure the PIP process is handled in compliance with all regulations and employee rights.
 Advise the supervisor to increase the frequency of informal counseling sessions with the employee to address the performance issues, while carefully avoiding any mention of the medical condition or a formal PIP.
 Instruct the supervisor to gather all performance-related documentation and then schedule a three-way meeting with you and an HR specialist to discuss the specifics of the case and determine next steps.
 Tell the supervisor to proceed with the standard PIP process as they would for any other employee, as performance is a separate issue from medical status and should be treated as such without exception.


11.
As the rating official for several office chiefs, you are finalizing their annual performance appraisals. One chief has met all their stated objectives but has a reputation for being a poor communicator and having low morale within their team, which is not a formal objective. How do you address this in their appraisal?
 Discuss the morale and communication issues with the chief during their performance review but keep these comments informal and do not include them in the official written appraisal document.
 Rate the chief as fully successful on their stated objectives but include specific, constructive narrative comments in the appraisal regarding the impact of their communication style and the need for improvement.
 Give the chief a lower overall performance rating, citing the negative impact on the organization, even though all of their explicitly defined performance objectives for the year were successfully met.
 Rate the chief highly on their technical achievements but formally add a new performance objective for the upcoming year focused specifically on leadership, team communication, and improving morale.
 Rate the chief as "Excellent" based solely on the fact that they met all of their written objectives, as unwritten expectations or team morale are not part of the formal evaluation criteria.


12.
A critical, long-term project overseen by the Mission Support office is failing. It has missed several key milestones, and the project team appears disorganized. The District Commander is concerned and has asked you to intervene to get the project back on track. What is your most appropriate action?
 Assign a temporary project manager from your own staff to embed with the Mission Support team to provide direct oversight and report back to you with daily progress updates on the failing project.
 Conduct a formal after-action review with the project team and its leadership to identify root causes of failure, then re-scope the project with a new charter, realistic milestones, and clarified roles.
 Instruct the project team to cease all work immediately until a full investigation can be completed, and in the meantime, reassign the team's members to other, more successful ongoing projects.
 Meet with the Chief of Mission Support to express the Commander's concern and direct them to develop and present a comprehensive recovery plan to you within one week for approval.
 Inform the Commander that the project is beyond recovery and recommend that it be terminated immediately to cut further losses of time and resources, and to focus on other district priorities.


13.
Your Internal Review office has just completed an audit that uncovered significant, but unintentional, procedural non-compliance in the District's travel program, managed by the Logistics Office. While no fraud was found, the report highlights waste and inefficiency. How do you ensure accountability?
 Present the audit findings at the next command and staff meeting, using the travel program as a case study to emphasize the importance of procedural compliance for all office chiefs and staff.
 Meet with the Logistics Chief to review the findings, direct them to develop a corrective action plan with a clear timeline, and schedule a follow-up audit in six months to verify full compliance.
 Issue a formal letter of counseling to the Logistics Chief for failure to maintain oversight of their program, making it clear that future audit findings of this nature will result in more severe action.
 Forward the audit report to the Logistics Chief with a directive to implement all recommendations within 90 days and provide a written confirmation once all corrective actions have been completed.
 Since no fraud was discovered, classify the audit findings as "for informational purposes only" and instruct the Logistics Chief to review them and make improvements as they see fit over time.


14.
The Commander must announce a controversial and unpopular decision to reorganize two support offices. There is a high risk of employee anxiety and rumors. You are asked to develop the communication plan. What should your plan prioritize?
 A series of small group listening sessions with the affected employees, led by you, to explain the decision and gather their feedback and concerns before any official, district-wide announcement is made.
 A timed sequence of messaging, starting with briefing the affected supervisors, followed by an all-hands meeting led by the Commander to explain the rationale, and concluding with written FAQs.
 A single, comprehensive memorandum posted on the District's internal website that outlines the reorganization plan in full detail, allowing employees to access and read the information at their own pace.
 A detailed email from the Commander sent to all staff simultaneously, clearly explaining the decision, the reasons behind it, and the timeline for implementation to ensure everyone gets the same information.
 Delay the announcement for as long as possible while you work with Public Affairs to craft messages that frame the reorganization in the most positive light, focusing only on the potential benefits.


15.
You are leading a cross-functional team tasked with developing a new five-year strategic plan. The team is composed of senior leaders from different offices, and there are strong, conflicting opinions about the District's future priorities. The team is struggling to find a shared vision. What is your best approach to move forward?
 Meet individually with each team member to understand their key concerns and priorities, and then attempt to broker compromises between the members with the most conflicting viewpoints.
 Facilitate a structured workshop for the team to analyze external directives, internal performance data, and stakeholder needs to collaboratively identify and agree upon a set of common strategic goals.
 Ask the team members to vote on the top three most important priorities, and then proceed with developing the strategic plan based on the items that receive the majority of the votes from the group.
 Draft your own version of the strategic vision and key priorities based on your understanding of the Commander's intent, and present it to the team as a starting point for further discussion and refinement.
 Escalate the issue to the District Commander, report that the team is at an impasse, and request that the Commander make a final decision on the strategic priorities so the team can proceed.


16.
A high-priority project requires close collaboration between your District's Public Affairs Office (PAO) and a key external partner agency. The partner agency's representative has complained to you that your PAO team is unresponsive and difficult to work with, jeopardizing the project timeline. How do you handle this?
 Ask the partner agency representative to provide specific examples and documentation of the unresponsiveness so that you can conduct a thorough investigation before approaching your PAO team.
 Acknowledge the partner's concerns, then meet with your PAO chief to understand their perspective. Follow up by facilitating a joint meeting to reset expectations and agree on a communication plan.
 Defend your PAO team to the external partner, explaining that they are currently overworked and understaffed, and ask the partner to be more patient as your team works through its backlog of tasks.
 Immediately apologize to the partner agency, assure them you will correct the issue, and then direct your PAO chief to prioritize all requests from this partner and improve their team's responsiveness.
 Tell the partner agency representative that you cannot get involved in internal team dynamics and suggest that they try to resolve the issue directly with the chief of your Public Affairs Office.


17.
The Commander has asked you to lead the development of the District's annual strategic goals. This will require input and coordination from all major offices, each with its own priorities. What is your best initial step to organize this complex effort?
 Task each office chief to submit their top three strategic goals for the year, and then you will consolidate and deconflict the submissions into a single, cohesive list for the Commander's review.
 Develop and distribute a detailed planning framework and timeline to all office chiefs, outlining the process for submitting their proposed goals and the criteria by which they will be evaluated and prioritized.
 First, draft a set of strategic goals yourself based on your knowledge of the Commander's priorities, and then circulate the draft to the office chiefs for their comments and suggested revisions.
 Host a large, off-site planning conference for all leadership and key staff to brainstorm and collaboratively develop the strategic goals for the upcoming year in a single, intensive session.
 Schedule a meeting with the Commander to get their list of goals, and then disseminate that list to the staff as the final, approved annual goals without further input from the various offices.


18.
The District has a long-standing mentorship program that is popular and well-regarded anecdotally. However, there are no formal metrics to evaluate its effectiveness or its impact on employee retention and promotion. How would you approach evaluating this program?
 Task the Human Resources office with conducting a formal study of the mentorship program and presenting their findings and recommendations for improvement at the next quarterly leadership review.
 Develop a set of key performance indicators (KPIs) for the program, such as participant promotion rates and retention data, and compare them against a control group of non-participants over time.
 Compare the District's overall promotion and retention rates from before the program was implemented to the rates after it was implemented to determine its general impact on the workforce.
 Design and distribute a comprehensive survey to all past and present program participants and their supervisors to gather qualitative feedback on the program's perceived strengths and weaknesses.
 Conclude that since the program is popular and receives positive anecdotal feedback, it is clearly successful and does not require a formal evaluation that would consume valuable time and resources.


19.
The District's process for in-processing new civilian employees is slow and fragmented, involving multiple offices with poor coordination. This is leading to frustration for new hires and delays in them becoming fully productive. You are tasked with fixing this. What is your best approach?
 Develop a detailed checklist and welcome packet for new employees to help them better navigate the existing in-processing system and understand the steps they need to take with each office.
 Charter a process improvement team with members from HR, IT, Security, and Logistics to map the current process, identify bottlenecks, and design a new, streamlined, and integrated solution.
 Implement a "one-stop-shop" day each month where all relevant offices are in one location, requiring new hires to complete all their in-processing on that single day to improve efficiency.
 Direct the HR office, as the lead for civilian personnel, to review the entire in-processing system and present you with a revised plan that addresses the coordination issues with the other offices.
 Send a memorandum to all involved offices directing them to improve their coordination and speed up their part of the in-processing procedure, and warn that delays will be monitored.


20.
A new, long-term mission has been assigned to the District that will significantly increase the workload for the Public Affairs and Security offices over the next five years. Current staffing levels are insufficient to meet this new demand. What is your most appropriate long-range strategy?
 Direct the chiefs of the unaffected support offices to identify personnel who can be temporarily detailed or cross-trained to assist the Public Affairs and Security offices with the increased workload.
 Conduct a formal workload analysis to quantify the new staffing requirements, then develop a multi-year resourcing strategy that includes requests for new hires and investments in technology to create efficiencies.
 Instruct the Public Affairs and Security chiefs to reprioritize their existing tasks and absorb the new mission requirements within their current staffing levels, accepting some risk in their other duties.
 Authorize immediate temporary contracts for additional support in the affected offices to manage the initial workload increase while beginning the lengthy process of requesting permanent federal positions.
 Submit an immediate request to higher headquarters for the maximum number of new personnel you think you will need, justifying the request based on the importance of the new mission assignment.


21.
There has been a sudden, unexplained increase in minor safety incidents in the Logistics warehouse. No single cause is apparent. The Commander is concerned and has asked you to determine the root cause. What is your most appropriate first step?
 Immediately implement a safety stand-down day for the warehouse, during which all employees will retake mandatory safety training courses to address any potential knowledge gaps that may exist.
 Initiate a multi-pronged review by analyzing incident reports, interviewing affected employees and supervisors, and observing warehouse operations to synthesize data and identify potential causal factors.
 Conduct a walk-through of the warehouse with the Logistics Chief to personally look for any obvious hazards or procedural violations that might explain the recent increase in safety incidents.
 Direct the District Safety Officer to conduct a formal investigation and provide you with a comprehensive report of their findings and recommendations within 30 days for your review and action.
 Send a district-wide email reminding all employees of the importance of workplace safety and directing them to report any and all hazards to their supervisors immediately to prevent future incidents.


22.
An analysis of exit interview data reveals a recurring complaint about a "toxic work environment" within a specific support office, leading to high employee turnover. The office is, however, meeting all of its performance goals. How do you address this complex issue?
 Implement a district-wide leadership training program for all supervisors, with a special emphasis on communication and conflict resolution, to address the issue without singling out one office.
 Engage a neutral third party, such as an organizational assessment team, to conduct a formal command climate survey and confidential interviews to diagnose the root cause of the cultural issues.
 Reassign the chief of the affected office to a different role, assuming that a change in leadership is the quickest and most effective way to resolve the toxic environment and improve retention.
 Meet privately with the office's chief to present the exit interview data, discuss the allegations, and task them with developing and implementing a plan to improve their team's work environment.
 Disregard the anecdotal exit interview data since the office is meeting all of its official performance metrics, concluding that the complaints are likely from a few disgruntled former employees.


23.
Your team is planning a large, outdoor public outreach event. The weather forecast predicts a 40% chance of severe thunderstorms on the day of the event. Canceling the event would be a significant public relations setback, but proceeding could pose a safety risk to attendees and staff. What is the most prudent decision?
 Make the decision to move the event to its pre-planned indoor rain date, which is one week later, and immediately begin communicating the date change to the public to minimize confusion.
 Develop a risk mitigation plan that includes securing an alternate indoor venue, communicating the contingency plan to the public in advance, and establishing a clear weather-based "go/no-go" decision point.
 Proceed with the event as planned, but purchase event insurance that would cover any financial losses incurred if the event has to be canceled at the last minute due to the severe weather.
 Proceed with planning for the outdoor event but also arrange for emergency services to be on standby and develop an on-site evacuation plan in case the severe weather materializes unexpectedly.
 Cancel the event entirely to eliminate any possibility of safety risks to the public and staff, and issue a press release explaining that the cancellation is due to an unacceptable weather forecast.


24.
While reviewing weekly reports, you notice a subtle but consistent trend: one of your support offices has been increasingly late in submitting routine deliverables. While no major deadlines have been missed yet, the trend suggests a potential future problem. What is your most appropriate action?
 Begin personally tracking the office's submission times on a spreadsheet to gather more definitive data before you decide to intervene or discuss the potential problem with the office chief.
 Schedule an informal check-in with the office chief to discuss your observation, inquire about their team's workload and any potential challenges, and offer your support in addressing the issue proactively.
 Mention the general importance of meeting deadlines during your next all-hands staff meeting, without singling out the specific office, as a general reminder to all of your direct reports.
 Send an email to the office chief noting the pattern of late submissions and reminding them of the importance of timeliness in all deliverables, asking them to ensure future reports are on time.
 Wait until the office misses a major, critical deadline before taking any action, as addressing the issue now would be premature and could be perceived as micromanaging your staff.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙