Position Title
Hydrologist
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-SVA-Q4-13020921-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bishop, CA
 B. Chester, CA
 C. Fall River Mills, CA
 D. Hathaway Pines, CA
 E. Susanville, CA
 F. Upper Lake, CA
 G. Willows, CA
 H. Custer, SD
 I. Ephraim, UT
 J. Ferron, UT
 K. Moab, UT
 L. Monticello, UT
 M. Price, UT


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Hydrologist GS-1315-07/09 position. We will evaluate your resume and responses to this questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be fully supported by your resume and supporting documents.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and experience needed to qualify for this position. For each of the following questions, choose the response that best describes your education and/or experience. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information provided by your references. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Basic Education Requirement for 1315 series


1.
Select the statement that reflects your education for the 1315 series and/or experience. To be minimally qualified for this position, you must possess the required degree or a combination of education and experience.
 I have a degree in a physical or natural science, or engineering that included at least 30 semester hours in any combination of courses in hydrology, the physical sciences, geophysics, chemistry, engineering science, soils, mathematics, aquatic biology, atmospheric science, meteorology, geology, oceanography, or the management or conservation of water resources. The course work must have included at least 6 semester hours in calculus (including both differential and integral calculus), and at least 6 semester hours in physics. Calculus and physics, as described above, are requirements for all grade levels.
 I have a combination of education and experience that includes course work as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


In addition to the basic requirement stated above. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or specialized experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Hydrologist. Mark only one response for each question.


2.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or specialized experience as it pertains to meeting the Requirements for the Hydrologist, GS-1315-07 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-5 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: Gathered, consolidated, and prepared data for charts, lists of study findings, and statistical tables; Operated technical equipment or instruments to take readings and perform routine testing tasks, under the direction of a supervisor; Assisted in the preparation of technical reports, including assisting in the analysis of data and test findings; and/or Assisted in analysis of environmental effects of earth disturbing or other human activities on hydrologic resources.
 I have one full year of graduate level education (coursework directly related to position being filled).
 I have an appropriate combination of graduate level education and specialized experience. My education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I do not possess the specialized experience; however, I meet one or more of the following requirements for Superior Academic Achievement: I was in the upper third of my graduating class of my college or university or one of its major subdivisions, such as the Department or School of Agricultural Sciences, based on my completed courses; (2) GPA: My college GPA is 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on my official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during my final 2 years of the curriculum; or my college GPA is 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society as listed by the Association of College Honor Societies. My education has provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


3.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or specialized experience as it pertains to meeting the Requirements for the Hydrologist GS-1315-09 position. Please select only one response.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least GS-7 grade level. Qualifying specialized experience is defined as one or more of the following: Assisted senior hydrologists by carrying out routine projects; Assisted in implementing well-established hydrology programs or projects; Helped in assessing the water resource capability/suitability and identifying goals and concerns for water resource management; Conducted water resource inventories and prepared the resulting data for application into the land management planning process; and/or Assisted in water resource inventories following established procedures to assemble databases required to support management programs and planning.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related;
 I have an appropriate combination of specialized experience and education (only graduate education in excess of 18 semester hours may be used to qualify applicants for this grade level). My education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


For each item below, in your own words, do not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Describe a specific instance from your training and/or experience. Your response must include:
1. The situation or assignment, i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved;
2. The specific actions you took;
3. The outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment;
4. Your position title at the time; and
5. Provide the name and contact information for someone who can verify each accomplishment.


4.
Describe a situation where you applied hydrologic principles-such as interpreting streamflow, water quality data, geomorphic changes, or watershed conditions-to support a project or resolve a problem.


5.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



6.
Describe a situation where you used technical hydrology skills-such as field instruments, data analysis tools, water-quality procedures, or troubleshooting equipment-to support a project or solve a problem.


7.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



8.
Describe a situation where you needed to clearly communicate hydrologic information-such as field observations, water-quality results, or watershed concerns-to individuals or groups.


9.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



10.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, and degree.
 A. I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of college.
 B. I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 C. I am/(was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 D. I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g.,M.A. or Ph.D.).
 E. I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 F. None of the above.


11.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I certify I used my own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙