Position Title
Physical Science Technician
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NMFS-26-12996165-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 07, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Woods Hole, MA
 B. Narragansett, RI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
2
3


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
ZT-2: Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Physical Science Technician, ZT-1311-2, or equivalent grade level (GS-05) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band ZT-1 (or GS-04 grade level) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Assisting in collecting, processing or compiling hydrographic (pertaining to physical properties of seawater), chemical, or biological data; and Assisting in performing maintenance or diagnosing malfunctions of analytical equipment.
 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (a) with major study in an appropriate field of physical science, or (b) that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as physical science, engineering, or any branch of mathematics, except financial and commercial mathematics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and specialized experience as described above. Note: Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours of a course of study leading to a bachelor's degree is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
ZT-3: Select the one statement that best describes your experience performing the work of Physical Science Technician, ZT-1311-3, or equivalent grade level (GS-09) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band ZT-2 (or GS-08 grade level) in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Collecting and processing hydrographic data (measurements pertaining to the physical properties of seawater, including but not limited to temperature, salinity and dissolved oxygen); Preparing and deploying analytical equipment, monitoring equipment performance and performing maintenance on analytical equipment; and Recording and summarizing analytical data.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree in an appropriate field of physical science, engineering, or any branch of mathematics (except financial and commercial mathematics) or 2 years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience may be used to meet the total experience requirements. Note: Only graduate-level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower band level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Assessment 2
1.
How should a technician handle oceanographic data to ensure the quality of the experiment?

 Data is processed for quality control and archived following community-accepted workflows
 Data processing should only be handled by the supervisor or a higher-graded scientist
 Data should be processed as quickly as possible even if it is necessary to skip steps
 Only save data that seem scientifically interesting


2.
In the context of oceanographic sampling, what type of equipment is used as a community standard to sample the physical properties of seawater?

 An imaging FlowCytobot
 A radiosonde
 A compound optical microscope
 A conductivity, temperature, and depth (CTD) instrument


3.
What is a technician's responsibility regarding safety in the work area?

 Safety checks are conducted only by the higher-graded scientist
 The technician must conduct periodic safety checks of the work area
 Safety checks are only required when working on research vessels
 The position is Low Risk, so safety checks are not necessary


4.
Which of the following is a requirement for recording data and reviewing results?

 Unique data collection and processing protocols are developed for each new project
 Operational logs are filled out in advance of data collection
 Standardized data collection and processing protocols are followed to ensure data quality and integrity
 Data should not be questioned as long as instrumentation passed all pre-deployment tests


5.
In a laboratory or field setting, what is the purpose of maintaining operational logs?

 To track the work schedules, roles and responsibilities of personnel in the field
 To satisfy laboratory safety requirements
 To record information about data collection operations that will be used when processing and analyzing data
 To produce records needed for regulatory audits


6.
A technician is tasked with routine maintenance of analytical equipment. What is the required action if a malfunction is diagnosed?

 Attempt to redesign the equipment to prevent future failures
 Make note of the issue and follow general technical guidance to address the problem
 Make note of the issue but continue using the equipment to avoid data loss
 Dispose of the equipment and order a replacement immediately


7.
In the context of hydrography or oceanography, what does "calibrating" an instrument typically involve?

 Inspecting and replacing the physical sensors on the instrument after every use
 Testing and adjusting the instrument against a known standard to ensure accuracy
 Modifying the software coding to allow for faster data entry into archival systems
 Cleaning the exterior of the device to prevent biological growth


8.
Which of the following is true regarding the impact of a technician's work?

 They are the final authority on all data released to the public
 Their work is purely administrative and does not impact scientific results
 Their work affects the experiment design and quality of data available for scientific analysis
 Their work only affects their own personal training record


9.
If a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the handling or deployment of oceanographic instruments conflicts with a verbal suggestion from a peer, the technician should?

 Follow the peer's suggestion to maintain a positive laboratory environment
 Consult the established SOPs and seek guidance from a supervisor or project lead
 Create a new, third procedure to resolve the conflict independently
 Suspend data collection for that day to avoid errors


10.
In the field of oceanography, data collection can be challenged by changing environmental conditions, instrument malfunctions and complex operations. What role does the technician play in navigating these hurdles?

 Utilize knowledge of techniques, methods and methodology to troubleshoot issues and develop alternate approaches to standard sampling protocols in consultation with scientists
 Advise scientists against continued data collection when overly complex issues arise
 Adhere to a step-by-step SOP without deviation, even when conditions and requirements change
 Reject any project that requires deviation from standard protocols or use of complex technical software


11.
In the context of field operations aboard research vessels, a technician ensures project success by:

 Focusing exclusively on data collection software and ignoring the physical set-up of instrumentation
 Installing and testing instruments at the start of the project and refraining from further intervention thereafter
 Relying on the deck crew to test instrumentation and monitor data quality during operations
 Monitoring operations and identifying and solving sensor and instrumentation issues as they emerge throughout the project


12.
In the field of oceanography, the technician will follow community standards to ensure data quality and integrity by doing the following:

 Schedule analytical instruments for factory calibration at least once every 10 years
 Compare observations with historical averages and adjust or discard data that fall outside one standard deviation of historical measurements
 Collect water samples regularly to independently verify measurements made using analytical equipment
 Refrain from touching analytical equipment and sensors once installed at the start of the project to avoid contamination


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


13.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙