Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist (Liberty)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12894364 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 23, 2026 to Mar 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for the Recreation Specialist Supervisor position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.



1.
Documented experience working as a supervisor and/or as a leader

 Yes I have documented experience as a supervisor/or as a leader
 No I do not have any documented experience as a supervisor or as a leader


2.
Documented years working as a supervisory and/or as a leader


 5+ years of documented experience
 3 - 5 years of documented experience
 1 - 3 years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience


3.
Experience with retail operations (To include some or all of the following: Operating a Point of Sale system, patron tracking, ordering product, monitoring of sales, cash handling, customer service, providing information, inventory, making reservations and equipment issue).



 5+ years of documented experience
 3 - 5 years of documented experience
 1 - 3 years of documented experience
 Less than one year or no documented experience


4.
Skills in all database(s), software(s), and platform(s)



 A. Microsoft Outlook
 B. Microsoft Excell
 C. Microsoft Word
 D. Microsoft Access
 E. Microsoft Power point
 F. None of the above


5.
Knowledge of the goals, principles, techniques and methods of procedure used in organizing, planning and conducting all types of activities and community events


 5+ years of documented experience
 3 - 5 years of documented experience
 1 - 3 years of documented experience
 Less than 1 year or no documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙