Position Title
Facility Services Assistant
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERD-26-12905702-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7
8
9


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Facility Services Assistant position with Department of the Army.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Facility Services Assistant at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Following general/detailed instructions; and 2) Knowledge of facilities maintenance.
 I have successfully completed four years of education above the high school level obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education beyond two years (total semester hours minus 60) by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Facility Services Assistant at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Following general/detailed instructions; 2) Working with facilities maintenance; 3) Basic knowledge of facility equipment, machinery, and other features sufficiently to identify, code, classify, and input data in an automated maintenance control system.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Facility Services Assistant at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Working with facilities maintenance; 2) Basic knowledge of facility equipment, machinery, and other features sufficiently to identify, code, classify, and input data in an automated maintenance control system; 3) Oversight managing and scheduling recurring maintenance, repair, and replacement activities on complex equipment and machinery; and 4) Knowledge of budget and accounting principles sufficient for maintaining costs.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Facility Services Assistant at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Oversight managing and scheduling recurring maintenance, repair, and replacement activities on complex equipment and machinery; 2) Knowledge of budget and accounting principles sufficient to maintaining costs; 3) Gathering, compiling, and analyzing data for forecasting preventative maintenance, repairs, labor costs, and ordering parts and supplies; and 4) Utilizing multiple components of a complex and integrated automated maintenance control system and the ability to analyze system data to adjust procedures and make modifications to improve efficiency.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Facility Services Assistant at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Independently managing and scheduling recurring maintenance, repair, and replacement activities on complex equipment and machinery; 2) Knowledge of budget and accounting principles sufficient to maintaining costs for facility maintenance and equipment; 3) Gathering, compiling, and analyzing data for forecasting preventative maintenance, repairs, labor costs, and ordering parts and supplies; 4) Utilizing multiple components of a complex and integrated automated maintenance control system and the ability to analyze system data to adjust procedures and make modifications to improve efficiency; and 5) Developing, negotiating and administering construction and supply/service delivery order contracts and purchases.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statement.


6.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙