Position Title
Branch Chief
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-13072789-26-BG
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment? To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No
Additional Applicant Information
1.
Which of the following best describes your current Federal employment status?
 I am a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position.
 I am a current Federal employee who holds or has held a permanent (Tenure Group 1 or 2) position and have completed a probationary period of at least one year.
 I am a former NRC or Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) employee eligible for reinstatement to a position in the NRC.
 None of the above answer choices match my employment status.
2.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee in a permanent position, what is the highest grade level you held, excluding temporary promotions? (Please include the pay plan, e.g. GS-12, GG-11, or N/A for not applicable).
3.
If you are, or ever were, a federal civilian employee, please indicate the start date and end dates of the highest graded permanent positions you held, excluding temporary promotions (e.g. MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to present, or N/A for not applicable).
4.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position. (Maximum length of 8000 characters.)
5.
Do you certify, to the best of your knowledge and belief, that all information submitted with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (including degrees and accomplishments)? Do you understand that the information you provide may be investigated, and that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring you or for termination after you begin work? Additionally, do you acknowledge that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001)?
 Yes, I certify and acknowledge the above statements.
 No, I do not certify or acknowledge the above statements.
Branch Chief GG-0080-15
1.
GG-15 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band. To include Detailed knowledge and implementation understanding of federal Physical Security programs. This includes integrated oversight of the Insider Threat Program (ITP) and Operations Security (OPSEC); management of the Occupant Emergency Program (OEP) across HQ and regional offices; administration of badge issuance, access controls, and visitor management systems; ensuring proper handling and protection of Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) and classified materials; alignment with SEAD-3 foreign travel reporting requirements; conducting risk and vulnerability assessments, coordinating incident reporting, tracking corrective actions, and leading agency-wide security awareness activities.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-14 (or higher) grade level or equivalent.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.
