Position Title
Social Insurance Specialist (Disability Processing Specialist) Direct Hire
Agency
Social Security Administration
Announcement Number
SSA-13023945-26-RQ DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? Select yes if you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; your permanent grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy; AND your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. (Note: You must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Please review the Required Documents section of the announcement for more information.)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Birmingham, AL
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Los Angeles, CA
 D. Oakland, CA
 E. Pasadena, CA
 F. Richmond, CA
 G. San Diego, CA
 H. Denver, CO
 I. Saint Petersburg, FL
 J. Tampa, FL
 K. Atlanta, GA
 L. Chicago, IL
 M. Woodlawn, MD
 N. Boston, MA
 O. Pontiac, MI
 P. Kansas City, MO
 Q. Saint Louis, MO
 R. East Orange, NJ
 S. Albuquerque, NM
 T. New York, NY
 U. Queens, NY
 V. Raleigh, NC
 W. Philadelphia, PA
 X. Dallas, TX
 Y. Tacoma, WA


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Be sure to read the qualification requirements for this vacancy before you submit your resume. You must demonstrate specific experience to qualify.


Do not choose CTAP or ICTAP as your eligibility unless you were RIF'd (or notified that you will be RIF'd) from a Competitive Service position in the commuting area where you're applying AND you submit your RIF Notice AND your RIF SF-50 (see REQUIRED DOCUMENTS).


It is recommended (not required) that you use a computer to apply for this position -- applicants using a phone often miss key information.


If you experience difficulties while applying, use the links on the USAJobs website to seek help. If you're still unable to complete your application, submit a USAJobs Help Desk ticket to resolve the issue. You must also email Careers@ssa.gov with the SUBJECT LINE: "T-7 APPLICATION ISSUE 1302 3945" and provide details of the difficulties you're experiencing (with screenshots if applicable). This email must be received before the announcement closes. Technical difficulties reported after the announcement closes cannot be addressed.


To meet Minimum Qualifications for this GS-12 Disability Processing Specialist position you must demonstrate at least 52 weeks of Specialized Experience. (See QUALIFICATIONS for a full description of the required Specialized Experience.)


1.
Do you have 52 weeks of specialized experience at the GS-11 level, or equivalent, which includes the following? 1) making medical determinations of disability at the initial, reconsideration, and/or continuing disability review level; and 2) reviewing, developing, examining, investigating, and/or adjudicating and authorizing complex claims for medical disability programs.

 Yes
 No


2.
I understand that my resume must describe, in my own words, the specific duties I perform that pertain to the requirements for this position. If my resume doesn't clearly describe the duties I perform that demonstrate sufficient Specialized Experience, I will lose consideration for this position. Information not specifically stated in my resume cannot be assumed, even if I hold (or held) a position in this series. The experience I claim is subject to verification by the selecting official.

 Yes
 No


3.
I understand that selections from this Direct Hire announcement will result in a new federal appointment even if I already hold a federal position.

 Yes
 No


4.
I understand I may be required to serve a probationary period. Successful performance of work in this position and adherence to conditions of this position will be assessed during the 1-year probationary period that may be served by new appointees (e.g., new to SSA and/or new to this series).

 Yes
 No


5.
Please indicate your preferred duty location from the list below:
Boston MA
New York NY
Philadelphia PA
Chicago IL
Kansas City MO
Birmingham AL
Tacoma WA
Denver CO
Dallas TX
Richmond CA
Atlanta GA
Pontiac MI
Oakland CA
Los Angeles CA
San Diego CA
Pasadena CA
Queens NY
Albuquerque NM
St. Petersburg FL
East Orange NJ
St. Louis MO
Phoenix AZ
Raleigh NC
Woodlawn MD
Tampa FL


Your resume must include: (1) your name and contact information, (2) employer name and position held, (3) full start and stop dates (month/day/year) for each position, (4) full-time or part-time hours worked per week, (5) your grade and pay scale (for federal positions) and (6) a clear description of the duties you perform that relate to the experience required for this position. If you no longer hold a position, it must show an ending date. If your resume doesn't clearly show this information, you will be found ineligible.


You may update your resume at any time during the announcement open period by returning to your USAJOBS account. There you will find a record of your application, the application status and an option to Edit My Application. Once you've edited your resume to include all the required information and a clear description of the duties you perform that meet the requirements of the Specialized Experience statement, you can save the edited resume to your USAJobs Account and then upload it to this vacancy announcement. This option will no longer be available once the announcement has closed.


To verify the status of your application both during and after the announcement open period, log into your USAJOBS account. On the Home page, scroll down and locate your job application. Once the job has been located, click the "Track this application" link on the right under the application date. The page will refresh to display the Agency's Application Information page where you can scroll down and review any notifications the agency has sent you. The Application Status will appear along with the date your application was last updated. For information on what each Application Status means, visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/application/status/.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙