Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
315-26-RH-12989258-BU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Huntington, VA Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible(s).


1.
Are you a current employee of the Huntington, VA Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Offices?
 Yes, I am an employee of the Huntington, VA Regional Office and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


TIME-IN-GRADE RESTRICTION: As a current/former Federal GS employee you must meet Time-In-Grade requirements. You must submit the required SF-50(s), as described in the job announcement under the Required Documents section, to show that you meet time-in-grade for this position. Time-In-Grade restrictions also apply for CTAP applicants.


2.
At the GS-11 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-9 grade or higher. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have at least 52 weeks time-in-grade in a position at the GS-9 grade level or higher. (Please provide a supporting, non-award SF 50)
 I do not have at least 52 weeks of time-in-grade at the GS-9 level or higher.


In addition to Time-in-Grade requirements, your application documents must also demonstrate that you meet specialized experience and/or education requirements for the position of Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-11. Please select only one response.


3.
Specialized Experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. Please select a response that Best reflects your level of specialized experience and/or education you fully possess that demonstrates your qualifications for the position of Support Services Specialist, GS-0303-11.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower qualifying pay grade GS-09 or other equivalent pay systems. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: developing and interpreting administrative policies and requirements and reviewing the work of other team members, assisting with any facility issues, equipment, service operation design projects; and analyzing and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of various administrative programs, and renovation of existing office space, relocation of a team and/or office, facility improvements, workspace adjustments, and/or minor construction, etc.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M.
 I have less than a full year of experience as described in A and I have less than the full amount of education described in B, however combined my experience and education equal 100% of the required qualification. To do so, first calculate the percentage of qualifying education you have as a percentage of the education required. Next, calculate the percentage of specialized experience you have as a percentage of the experience required. Then, add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% for you to qualify for the position at the GS-11 grade level. Only graduate education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be used to qualify applicants for positions at the GS-11 level.
 I do not have the experience, education or a combination of both as described in statements A, B, nor C.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding No to this items will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙