Position Title
Region Resiliency Counselor
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR 26-127 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 11, 2026 to Apr 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Region Resiliency Counselor position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess two years or 2,000 hours post license clinical experience?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess a current, valid, unrestricted state licensure or certification that provides legal authority to provide clinical services as an independent practitioner in the fields of social work, psychology, or marriage and family therapy?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess at least a master's degree from an accredited program in one of the following clinical fields: Social Work or an equivalent degree, Marriage and Family Therapy from a program accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (COAMFTE) or an equivalent degree; or doctorate in Psychology approved by the American Psychological Association (APA) or equivalent degree from an accredited program? If no, do you currently work within the Navy's FFSC system?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you possess an active Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (S-SAACP) Certification?
 Yes I possess an active Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) Certification
 I do not possess a current Victim Advocate certification under the Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) Certification.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your years of experience providing 24/7 response to domestic violence or sexual assault victims.
 I have 5 or more years of experience
 I have 3-4 years of experience.
 I have 1-2 years of experience
 I have less than 1 but greater than 0 years of experience.
 I do not have experience providing 24/7 response to domestic violence or sexual assault victims.


6.
Choose the statement that describes your years of experience working within the Navy's Fleet & Family Support Center in assisting victims of domestic violence or sexual assault, ie: providing victim advocacy and care?
 I have 5+ years of experience in both Counseling & Advocacy and SAPR.
 I have 2-5 years of experience in both Counseling & Advocacy and SAPR.
 I have 2-5 years of experience in either Counseling & Advocacy or SAPR.
 I have 1-2 years of experience in both/either Counseling & Advocacy and SAPR.
 I have less than 1, but greater than 0 years’ experience in either/both Counseling & Advocacy and SAPR.
 I do not have experience providing Counseling & Advocacy and SAPR within the Navy’s Fleet & Family Support Center.


7.
Do you have experience providing training or workshops on topics such as sexual assault prevention and response, intimate partner violence or suicide?
 I have 5 or more years of experience.
 I have 3-4 years of experience.
 I have 1-2 years of experience.
 I have less than 1 but greater than 0 years of experience.
 I do not have experience providing training or workshops


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙