Position Title
Picture Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS) Technologist - Rec/Relo Incentive Authorized
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZM-13047695-26-JRH Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position within the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Administration. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Picture Archive Communication System (PACS) Technologist. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is GS-11.

The following KSAs should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:
 
Knowledge of contingency plans during equipment downtimes.
Ability to act as liaison for Radiology with biomedical engineering and OI&T.
Ability to develop methods and programs to evaluate, monitor, and maintain digital imaging and voice recognition systems.
Ability to lead a team of multidisciplinary members in accomplishing strategic planning and integration of PACS and network elements.
Ability to perform complex system administrator functions such as: oversight of RIS (Hospital Information System/Radiology Information System) links, AE titles, individual and user group creation and access management, etc.
Knowledge of VA and other national guidelines pertaining to PACS network, VistA imaging, and database security.
Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures so he/she will be able to perform and reconcile image information correctly and efficiently during technical post processing and evaluation.]

Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


*IMPORTANT*

PREFERRED EXPERIENCE for this position: Experience troubleshooting and providing training on PACS Systems

RESUME REMINDER
To be given proper credit for experience, YOUR RESUME MUST INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING for all positions held:
MM/YEAR - MM/YEAR
WORK SCHUDE (Full-Time or Part-Time)
HOUR PER WEEK WORKED (HH/40)
GRADES HELD for FEDERAL GS POSITION (Ex. GS-12)


1.
Education. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the 2 equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from [other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please provide the following information regarding your education:
school attended,
degree obtained,
date it was awarded.


3.
Certification. Do you have a current certification in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R), and have you held that certification for one year?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please provide the following information regarding your ARRT R certification:
ARRT (R) Certification Number:
Date of original issuance:
Date most recently renewed:
Date of expiration:


5.
GS-11 GRADE DETERMINATION: I have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, GS-10 directly related to the position being filled that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level. To be equivalent to the GS-10 level, experience must have also been earned while holding an active ARRT (R) Certification.

GS-10 level experience includes, but is not limited to the following:

Reference: Picture Archive Communication System (PACS) Technologist Assignment. The PACS technologist provides support and troubleshoots system application issues and instructs users in the proper operation of digital image processing, storage, and display systems. The technologist performs radiology, imaging, and PACS support activities and general ADPAC duties including user access control. The technologist coordinates contingency plans during equipment downtimes and initiates repair requests with appropriate services or vendors. The technologist provides oversight of hardware relating to PACS display workstations, applications, speech recognition hardware, and other medical imaging hardware. The technologist provides training to radiologists, technologists, and other clients in the proper and efficient use of imaging hardware and software of the integrated PACS and VistA imaging systems. The technologist provides instruction and guidance in daily operations of the ancillary systems such as: speech recognition dictation, dose reporting systems, contrast reporting systems, etc. The incumbent may function as a DRT which may include complex modalities such as CT, MR, mammography, ultrasound, and/or IR.
Ability to provide support and troubleshoot system application and hardware issues and instruct users in the proper operation of digital image processing, storage and display systems.
Ability to perform VistA radiology, VistA imaging, and PACS support activities and general ADPAC duties including user access control.
Ability to initiate repair requests with appropriate services or vendors.
Knowledge of PACS system infrastructure and functionality.
Ability to provide training to all user levels in the efficient use of imaging hardware and software of the integrated PACS system.
Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures so he/she will be able to perform and reconcile image information correctly and efficiently during technical post processing and evaluation.
 Yes.
 No.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙