Position Title
Training Specialist
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
OMAO-26-13049544-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Training Specialist, ZA-1712-3 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-11) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZA-2) or GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Providing advice and guidance for dive-related trainings or diving operations; Providing guidance as a dive instructor or trainer and supporting a variety of dive operations; and Participating in scientific diving operations under Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS) compliant scientific diving guidelines.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major study in education or a subject area related to the position to be filled OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of successfully completed graduate-level education and specialized experience may be used to meet the total experience requirements. Note: Only graduate-level education in excess of the amount required for the next lower grade level may be combined with experience. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not possess the education and/or experience described above.


2.
SELECTIVE PLACEMENT FACTOR: Essential to performing the duties of this position, one must currently hold an active SCUBA Instructor qualification from a nationally recognized training agency. Do you meet this requirement? If you do not meet the requirement of this Selective Placement Factor, you will be rated ineligible for this announcement. (Applicants must provide documentation with their application to support meeting this Selective Placement Factor.)

 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
1.
According to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations who has final authority over the policies and procedures of diving safety regulations for primarily scientific diving organization like NOAA?

 The Dive Program Manager
 The Diving Control Board
 The Diving Safety Officer
 The Safety and Environmental Compliance Division Director


2.
When determining whether the activities for a particular dive are subject to OSHA commercial diving regulations or fall under the exemption for scientific diving what factor is relevant?

 Depth
 Decompression/hyberbaric exposure limits
 Scientific expertise of the diver
 Jurisdiction (state waters vs. federal waters)


3.
What is the foundational governing provision of a scientific diving organization?

 World Recreational Scuba Training Council (WRSTC)
 The NOAA Diving Standards and Safety Manual (NDSSM)
 The American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS)
 29 CFR Part 1910 Subpart T


4.
Who is the standard setting reference for the OSHA scientific diving exemption?

 The NOAA Diving Control & Safety Board (NDCSB)
 American Academy of Underwater Sciences (AAUS)
 National Ocean Services Line Office Diving Officer
 OSHA


5.
As an onsite diving instructor conducting hazardous operations, who has the authority to suspend operations?

 A concerned citizen
 The individual diving
 The World Recreational Scuba Training Council Chairman
 The employees’ timekeeper


6.
What is a fundamental task in operational risk management?

 Analyzing job hazards inherent to an operation prior to commencement
 Delegating staff to fill operational oversight roles
 Penalizing subordinates for unsafe behavior
 Complying with all required paperwork prior to execution


7.
For dives that required staged decompression what is a reasonable conservation factor to apply to standard algorithm like Bühlmann's 16 compartment model?

 Always use the ‘safe’ setting
 The maximum m-value
 If the computer has a ‘medium setting’ use it.
 A gradient factor of 50/70


8.
To what standard are Diving Medical Technicians Trained?

 Emergency Medical Technician’s only
 National Board of Diving & Hyperbaric Medical Technology
 All DMT’s must be U.S. Public Health Service Officers with a PA or RN rating
 Diver’s Alert Network (DAN) training


9.
What is a demonstrably safe isopleth for sustained exposure to O2 for up to at least 240 minutes?

 Nitrox 36
 Normoxic Trimix (like 21/35)
 .21 PPO2
 1.3 PPO2


10.
When overseeing safe dive operations as an onsite divemaster the most important factor is to file a float plan so the coast guard knows where to search in an emergency.

 TRUE
 FALSE


11.
What is the safest/preferred methodology for fielding a working diver?

 Surface supplied diving systems
 Basic open circuit scuba
 Closed circuit rebreathers
 It depends on the mission requirements


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙