Position Title
Program Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12884166-26-RM Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume and supporting documents. Applicants wishing to receive credit for experience must clearly indicate the nature of their duties and responsibilities in each position and the number of hours a week spent in such employment. Applicants wishing to receive credit for education must submit transcripts that include name of individual, program enrolled, month and date of degree conferred.


1.
Minimum Qualification
Experience: Applicants must possess one full year of  specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position. Qualifying examples of specialized experience include the following: 
Skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of issues or problems of procedural or factual nature.
Advanced knowledge and skills in operating computer software, to include the ability to extract information from one document into another, format text, merge documents; track finances, and prepare reports.
Knowledge of administrative concepts, principles, and practice sufficient to perform duties independently.
Screens all calls and visitors, answering most questions and completing most business involving established policy or routine matters without referring to the supervisor.
Maintains a variety of files for administrative and professional activities
 I possess one full year of specialized experience listed above equivalent to the GS-05 grade level that has equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the positions.
 My qualifications are not listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙