Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC INSPECTOR SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12937346-AR-26-126 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)



2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)



3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.



4.
Are you currently an Enlisted Member in the grade of E8 to E9 or a Warrant Officer in the grade of WO1 to CW3 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?

 Yes
 No


5.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at theCombined Support Maintenance Shop - East
 AOC 2: NG employees in the DCSG4 (This includes Combined Support Maintenance Shop - West, Director of Logistics, State Surface Maintenance Office, FMS's 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 16, 17, 24, 27, 28, 29, and 33, and the United Training Equipment Site)
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience or training which demonstrates the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs? Are you able to explain manuals and work procedures and to prepare production records, work records and reports?

 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, do you have experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel? Do you possess experience which require the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines? Do you have knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function? Do you have the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes? Do you have experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations?

 I know little or nothing about this.
 I have had study or training in this.
 I have used my knowledge or ability, but I have been closely supervised.
 I have used my knowledge or ability on my own, under normal supervision.
 I am consulted by other journeypersons in difficult situations, or I am called on to do unusually difficult jobs.


3.
Are you related to anyone employed by this agency?

 Yes, I am related to someone employed by this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone employed by this agency.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief that my answers are true, correct, complete and made in good faith.

 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙