Position Title
Power Plant Electrician
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12966208-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 20, 2026 to Jun 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position has a requirement to lift up to 45 lbs. in the regular performance of duties. Are you willing and able to meet the lifting requirement?
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Power Plant Electrician position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of the Power Plant Electrician, WB-2810-00, position. Failure to meet this screen-out element will result in an ineligible rating.
 I have the ability to perform as an advanced journeyman who has become an expert in diagnosing, repairing, and maintaining power distribution circuits, control systems, communication systems, and high voltage heavy duty generating and distribution systems. My experience as an advanced journeyman electrician was acquired in a hydroelectric plant.
 I have the ability to perform the common tasks of a journeyman electrician in diagnosing, repairing, and maintaining power distribution circuits, control systems, communication systems, and high voltage heavy duty generating and distribution systems. My experience as a journeyman electrician was acquired in a steam generating, coal fire, or commercial industrial plant.
 I have the ability to perform the common tasks of a journeyman electrician in diagnosing, repairing, and maintaining power distribution circuits, control systems, communication systems, and low voltage distribution systems, under supervision of a supervisory electrician with inspection performed at the completion of each task. My experience was acquired in an industrial setting.
 I have assisted a journeyman electrician with the installation and repair of electrical equipment. I have experience deciding the order in which assigned tasks are to be done and carrying out the tasks. I operate power and hand tools commonly used in the trade. My work is checked by the supervisor at the end of each task.
 My training or experience in not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙