Position Title
Region EFMP Special Education Liaison
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
26-12821262 Opens in new window
Open Period
Oct 24, 2025 to Nov 09, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
I am willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to travel away from my duty location.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to satisfactorily complete all background checks in accordance with PL 101-647 to include National Agency Check with Written Inquiries (NACI). If access to Government computer, databases, and/or systems is required in the performance of duties, the incumbent must pass SF- 86/Eligibility for Secret Clearance upon hire and periodically thereafter as a condition of employment. To obtain a Secret Clearance, selectee must be a U.S. Citizen. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the open position of Regional Exceptional Family Member Special Education Specialist. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.

All responses must be supported by your transcripts and resume.  



1.
Do you possess a bachelor's degree or higher in special education or a related field AND at least one year of specialized experience working with special needs families or in special education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the option that best describes your level of education.  
**Documentation of education must be uploaded in order to receive credit for education earned**
 Bachelor’s degree or higher in special education.
 Bachelor’s degree or higher in general education, child development, special needs, social work, sociology, psychology, law, advocacy, human services, health, or related field.
 Bachelor’s degree in field not listed above.
 Associate’s degree in related social or behavioral science field.
 None of the above.


3.
Please describe your level of experience in provision of client support services in serious and complicated cases with families with exceptional family members.
 Two years or more experience working for or with the Department of Defense (DoD) in a special education position, with the ability to work with military families and knowledge of military lifestyle/related challenges.
 Less than two years working for the DoD in a special education position, with the ability to work with military families and knowledge of military lifestyle/related challenges.
 Two years or more experience working for or with the Department of Defense (DoD) in a position such as an Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) Case Liaison, Case Manager, School Liaison Officer, EFMP Coordinator, or similar position within DoD (any branch of service) with knowledge and understanding of requirements and operations of DoD EFMP.
 Less than two years working for the Department of Defense (DoD) in a position such as an Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP) Case Liaison, Case Manager, School Liaison Officer, EFMP Coordinator, or similar position within DoD (any branch of service) with knowledge and understanding of requirements and operations of DoD EFMP.
 Worked with special needs families in civilian sector, not specifically in fields listed above.
 I have no practical experience in this role.


4.
Please select the answer that best describes your knowledge or experience in facilitating trainings and briefs.
 Currently develops and/or facilitates trainings and briefs for families with special education needs.
 Previously facilitated trainings and briefs for families with special education needs.
 Two years or more past experience facilitating trainings and briefs on resources for families with special needs.
 Less than two years past experience facilitating trainings and briefs on resources for families with special needs.
 I have no practical experience in this task.


5.
The ability to facilitate outreach efforts is a requirement for this position. Please select the answer that best describes your experience with outreach efforts.
 Recently (currently or within past three years) demonstrated effectiveness in building networking relationships with community-based organizations to plan, strategize, and conduct outreach programs to support families with special educational needs.
 Historically (more than three years ago) demonstrated effectiveness in building networking relationships with community-based organizations to plan, strategize, and conduct outreach programs to support families with special educational needs
 Have demonstrated skills and/or ability in building networking relationships with community-based organizations on a topic other than support for families with special educational needs.
 I do not have practical experience in this task.


6.
Please choose the answer that best describes your working level of knowledge of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and other disability civil rights laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act. *
 Work experience demonstrates knowledge of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and other disability civil rights laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act currently or within the last five years.
 Work experience demonstrates knowledge of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and other disability civil rights laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act longer than five years ago.
 Have training but not direct experience regarding the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and other disability civil rights laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act currently or within the last five years
 I have no experience regarding the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and other disability civil rights laws, including the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙