Position Title
Maintenance & Operations Supervisor
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-13020100 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 29, 2026 to Aug 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
1.
Read all the statements below, and then select the response based on your highest level of ability to perform the duties of the position.
 I independently supervise through subordinate supervisors and provide technical and administrative direction over multiple shops or functional areas responsible for the installation, repair, modification, and preventive maintenance of facility systems; I establish priorities, allocate resources across operations, and ensure compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local codes, safety regulations, and policies; I hold subordinate supervisors accountable for performance, workforce management, and mission execution in a 24/7 operational environment; I perform these duties with a high degree of independence, applying advanced judgment and leadership to ensure safe, reliable, and efficient operations. I have experience in High Voltage Operations.
 I supervise through subordinate supervisors and assist in providing technical and administrative direction over multiple shops or functional areas responsible for the installation, repair, modification, and preventive maintenance of facility systems; I help establish priorities, allocate resources, and ensure compliance with applicable codes, safety regulations, and policies; I support accountability of subordinate supervisors for performance and operations; I perform these duties under general supervision, using sound judgment and leadership to support safe and effective operations. I have experience in High Voltage Operations.
 I lead or oversee work activities through team leads or senior workers and assist with coordinating work involving installation, repair, modification, and preventive maintenance of facility systems; I help support compliance with codes, safety regulations, and policies; I contribute to workload planning and resource coordination; I perform these duties under supervision, applying practical leadership skills to support operations. I have experience in High Voltage Operations.
 I have the ability to perform similar or simple tasks, or I have received training for this type of work.
 I do not have on-the-job training, or the ability described above.


2.
Please specify where this is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


3.
This position requires that the incumbent have a strong working knowledge of a variety of facility operations and complex building systems (i.e. HVAC, electrical, plumbing, fire protection). Please select the response based on your highest level of ability.
 I have assisted with building maintenance and operations.
 I have performed troubleshooting and repairs; and managed a single-system or small facility.
 I have provided training and technical direction to others on the operation and maintenance of multiple systems across a facility.
 I have advised, provided guidance, and developed internal procedures regarding enterprise or multi-site operations with mission-critical systems.
 None of the above.


4.
This position requires that the incumbent have a strong working knowledge of continuous operation of mission critical infrastructure. Please select the response based on your highest level of ability.
 I participated on a team supporting continuity efforts.
 I had responsibility for uptime within a limited scope.
 I was accountable for enterprise-wide operational continuity in a 24/7 environment.
 I managed continuity across multiple systems.
 None of the above.


5.
Choose the following statement that best describes your integrating multiple building trades (i.e. mechanical, electrical, carpentry, etc.).
 I have observed or supported integrating multiple building trades.
 I have coordinated two trades.
 I have integrated multiple trades across projects.
 I have directed full multi-trade operations across facilities.
 None of the above.


6.
Choose which statement best describes your ability to manage utility systems (steam, hot water, chilled water, electrical distribution).
 I have assisted with operations and observed responses to system failures and/or emergencies.
 I have managed multiple utility systems and led response efforts to system failures and/or emergencies.
 I have managed a single utility system and responded to system failures and/or emergencies as part of a team.
 I have directed integrated utility systems across multiple facilities and directed emergency operations and system restoration.
 None of the above.


7.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability working alongside skilled trades to resolve issues.
 I have frequently worked alongside teams of skilled trades to resolve issues.
 I have personally led or demonstrated technical work for complex issues.
 I have observed work of skilled trades to resolve issues.
 I have occasionally assisted teams of skilled trades to resolve issues.
 None of the above.


8.
Choose the following statement that best describes your ability to maintain operations in a 24/7 environment.
 I have limited exposure maintaining operations in a 24/7 environment.
 I have managed operations across all shifts in a 24/7 environment.
 I have worked in a shift-based environment to maintain operations.
 I have directed continuous operations across multiple facilities.
 None of the above.


9.
As the Maintenance and Operations Supervisor, you will need to plan maintenance activities. Please select the statement that best describes your ability to develop maintenance plans and schedules.
 I have assisted in scheduling repair and maintenance work, while balancing operational needs.
 I have developed and managed maintenance work plans per shift objectives and/or team schedules.
 I have estimated material and manpower needs for maintenance jobs and developed multi-trade schedules.
 I have directed long-range and short-term planning across a continuous operations facility.
 None of the above.


10.
As the Maintenance and Operations Supervisor, you will need to possess good organizational skills. Please select the statement that best describes your ability with preventive and predictive maintenance programs.
 I have participated in preventive and predictive maintenance activities.
 I have managed preventive and predictive maintenance programs.
 I have been part of a team responsible for implementing preventive and predictive maintenance.
 I have designed and optimized enterprise-level maintenance strategies; organizing, assigning and directing work assignments to accomplish goals.
 None of the above.


11.
As the Maintenance and Operations Supervisor, you will need to possess good administrative skills. Please select the statement that best describes your ability allocating labor, materials, and equipment.
 I have directed resource allocation and independently developed and relayed instructions across an organization or multiple facilities.
 I have managed resources across multiple teams; coordinating work with supporting or related work functions, support staff and subordinate supervisors.
 I have assisted with resource tracking; multitask and assign priorities.
 I have allocated resources within a team; creating and promoting safety procedures.
 None of the above.


12.
As the Maintenance and Operations Supervisor, you will need to possess good system performance analysis and management skills. Select the statement that best describes your ability.
 I have prepared and reviewed reports.
 I have documented instructions/procedures and used data to inform decisions.
 I have conducted performance analysis and adjustments; organized, assigned and directed assignments to accomplish goals.
 I have directed data-driven operational strategy and performance optimization and developed staffing requirements.
 None of the above.


13.
Which statement best describes your ability coordinating repair or upgrade projects?
 I have directed complex infrastructure projects across facilities.
 I have managed small projects.
 I have managed multi-trade projects.
 I have assisted with projects
 None of the above.


14.
Please choose the statement that best describes your ability coordinating projects, contractor performance and integrating work across multiple disciplines.
 I have approved and validated technical work; directed contractor oversight and performance accountability, complex infrastructure projects and enterprise-level integration at an organizational level across facilities.
 I have reviewed basic documents, monitored contractor performance, and managed small projects coordinated within one discipline.
 I have limited exposure to technical documents and work orders and have assisted with projects requiring limited coordination and observation of contractor work.
 I have reviewed complex technical submissions, managed contracts and compliance with multi-trade projects integrating multiple disciplines.
 None of the above.


15.
Which statement best describes your ability to troubleshoot complex HVAC or mechanical systems?
 I have resolved complex failures related to HVAC or mechanical systems.
 I have independently troubleshot failures related to HVAC or mechanical systems.
 I have assisted with troubleshooting failures related to HVAC or mechanical systems.
 I have served as technical authority for HVAC or mechanical systems troubleshooting related to HVAC or mechanical systems.
 None of the above.


16.
Select the statement that best describes your ability effectively managing electrical distribution systems.
 I have worked on low-voltage systems.
 I have a basic familiarity with electrical distribution systems.
 I have served as technical authority for electrical distribution systems.
 I have worked on high- and low-voltage electrical distribution systems.
 None of the above.


17.
Please select the statement that best describes your ability to perform or oversee high-voltage switching.
 I have performed or supervised high-voltage switching operations.
 I have observed high-voltage switching operations.
 I have directed high-voltage switching operations and emergency restoration.
 I have assisted in high-voltage switching operations.
 None of the above.


18.
Select the statement that best describes your ability with building automation/control systems, fire alarm and fire protection systems.
 I have managed system operations, compliance and performance.
 I have operated and maintained systems.
 I have served as technical authority for fire protection systems and directed optimization and integration of control systems.
 I have basic familiarity with building automation/control systems, fire alarm and fire protection systems.
 None of the above.


19.
Select the statement that best describes your ability conducting inspections, identifying deficiencies and ensuring compliance with safety and regulatory standards (i.e. NFPA, OSHA, etc.).
 I have led inspection and managed compliance programs.
 I have conducted inspections and enforced compliance within a team.
 I have directed compliance and inspection strategy ensuring safety and regulatory compliance across operations.
 I have assisted with inspections and followed safety procedures.
 None of the above.


20.
Which statement best describes your ability advising senior leadership on operations or infrastructure and recommending system or process improvements?
 I have provided input when asked and suggested minor improvements.
 I have advised supervisors and recommended improvements.
 I have served as principal technical advisor and directed continuous improvement strategy.
 I have advised senior leadership and led improvement initiatives.
 None of the above.


21.
Select the statement that best describes your ability supervising supervisors.
 I have supervised a small team.
 I have led employees without supervisory authority.
 I have exercised full supervisory authority over subordinate supervisors.
 I have supervised supervisors or multiple teams.
 None of the above.


22.
Which statement best describes your ability to evaluate employee or supervisor performance?
 I have evaluated supervisors and handled employee performance issues.
 I have provided informal feedback to supervisors for employee performance plans.
 I have directed performance management programs across multiple teams.
 I have conducted performance evaluations for employees.
 None of the above.


23.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to resolve workplace conflicts.
 I have resolved minor workplace issues.
 I have observed conflict resolutions in the workplace.
 I have managed high-level workforce issues impacting operations.
 I have resolved complex personnel conflicts in the workplace.
 None of the above.


24.
Select the statement that best describes your ability to prepare technical and operational reports and develop workforce training programs.
 I have prepared reports and delivered training to employees.
 I have assisted in report preparation and participated in training.
 I have directed reporting for organizational decision-making and workforce development strategies across multiple trades.
 I have developed detailed technical reports and training programs.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙