Position Title
Medical Records Administration Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-13008330-26-JYC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 17, 2026 to Jul 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current/past/upcoming VHA Health Professions Trainee (HPT) Graduate?

An HPT may be VA-paid, Without Compensation (WOC), or a participant of the VA Health Professional Scholarship Program that has been appointed to a temporary position in one or more VHA medical facilities performing clinical or research training experience to satisfy program or degree requirements.

To verify your standing as a current/past/upcoming HPT graduate, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), the FL-294 (or a WOC appointment letter).
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
The following are the requirements for appointment as a Medical Records Administration Specialist (MRAS) and Medical Records Administrator (MRA) (collectively referred to as "MRA") in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). These requirements apply to all VHA MRAs in the General Schedule (GS)- 0669 series. MRAs in VHA perform or supervise work concerned with the management of a health record program or the provision of services related to medical record administration/health information services. MRAs manage, preserve, analyze, and supervise the use of diagnostic and therapeutic health records/health information management. They develop policies and procedures and provide advice on the use of health records and health information management. In the health care community, MRAs are generally referred to as "health information managers (HIM) or health information management specialists (HIMS)," and these terms are considered to be synonymous where stated.


The following are the basic requirements for the Medical Records Administrator.


English Language Proficiency. MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes, I am proficient in spoken and written English.
 No, I am NOT proficient in spoken and written English.


Creditable Experience. Experience is only creditable if it is in health information management and is directly related to the position to be filled. To be creditable, the candidate's experience must have demonstrated the use of knowledge, skills, and abilities associated with current practice. Experience satisfying this requirement must be active practice, which is paid/non-paid employment as an MRT/MRA or related field such as medical coding, qualitative and quantitative health record analysis, Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act privacy and release of information, or preparation, maintenance, and management of health records. Part-Time Experience. Part-time experience as a professional MRA is creditable according to its relationship to the full-time workweek. For example, an MRA would receive one week of full-time credit for each two weeks of half-time work. Quality of Experience. To be creditable, experience must be documented on the application or resume and verified in an employment reference, or through other independent means.


Basic Experience and Education qualification. Applicants must possess at least the one of the following basic experience and education combinations to be eligible for appointment.


2.
Select the experience/education statement that best applies to your experience/education.

 Experience. I have at least three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems. This experience MUST be documented in your resume.
 Education. I have successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology. You must provide transcripts.
 Experience/Education Combination. I have an equivalent combination of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent to meet the basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
 Grandfathering Provision. As of May 28, 2020, I was, and I am still am employed in the VHA as an permanent MRA, therefore, I am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series, and grade held, including positive education, and registration and/or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Must provide SF50 dated before and after 05/28/2020, that reflects your occupation.
 I do not have the basic education and/or experience, and I do not meet the grandfathering provision.


Persons hired or reassigned to MRA position in the GS-0669 series in the VHA must meet certification requirements. You MUST provide documentation of your certification.


3.
Select the certification statement that best applies to your certification.

 I have Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. Coding Certification. Mastery certification obtained through the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) or the American Association of Professional Coders (AAPC)., current mastery level coding certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) ? Physician-based (CCS-P), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), and Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC).
 I have Health Information Management (HIM) Certification through AHIMA of either Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and/or Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).
 I am a Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA) through AHIMA.
 Grandfathering Provision. As of May 28, 2020, I was, and I am still am employed in the VHA as an permanent MRA, therefore, I am considered to have met all qualification requirements for the certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Must provide SF50 dated before and after 05/28/2020, that reflects your occupation.
 I do not have the required certification, and I do not meet the grandfathering provision.


The following questions relate to grade determination. In addition to the basic requirements listed above, you must meet the criteria for the grade(s) you are applying for.


4.
Select the experience/education statement that best applies to your experience/education for the GS-05 Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve in an MRA career development position under close supervision. MRAs are responsible for generating multiple HIM reports. They participate in various health record review activities to ensure the integrity of the health record according to established policies.
 Three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems.
 Successful completion of a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology
 Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.
 Grandfathering provision. As of May 28, 2020, I was, am still an employee in the VHA as a permanent MRA, therefore, I am considered to have met the qualification requirement for the title, series and grade held including positive education and registration and or certification that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation. Must provide SF50 dated before and after 05/28/2020, that reflects your occupation.
 I do no have the basic education and/or experience and i do not meet the grandfathering provision.


Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-07. Assignment. Employees at this level serve in an MRA career development position with guidance from the supervisor or designee in day-to-day assignments. MRAs are responsible for generating, analyzing, and presenting multiple HIM reports. They monitor health record data integrity per established policies, procedures, and industry standards. They prepare workload and production reports and monitor trends to identify efficiencies and deviations. Additionally, they participate in various health record review activities. The MRA typically participates in various facility and regional committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The GS-07 MRAS must Demonstrated the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. i. Knowledge of current classification systems, such as International Classification of Diseases, Current Procedural Terminology, and the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS). ii. Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) with medical center staff, patients, and external entities. iii. Ability to use data collection and analytical techniques for purposes of review, quality control, studies and analysis of health information. iv. Ability to utilize computer applications with varied functions to produce a wide range of reports, to abstract records, collect and analyze data and present results in various formats. v. Ability to work independently, adapt to shifting priorities, and meet deadlines.


5.
Select the statement that best describes your education/experience and the ability to demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-7.

 Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstration the KSAs for this grade level. Experience and KSAs must be documented in your resume.
 Education. (Advanced Entry-Level Placement). I possess a bachelor?s degree from an accredited college or university in a major field of study in health information management, with an exemplary academic record as demonstrated by a 3.0 or higher-grade point average (GPA) out of a possible 4.0, and I can demonstrate the KSA for this grade level. Must provide transcripts.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for this grade level.


Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-09. Assignments. Employees at this level serve in an MRA career development position with limited guidance, from the supervisor or designee, in day-to-day assignments. MRAs are responsible for generating and analyzing multiple HIM reports and identifying best practices or opportunities for improvement. They perform workflow analyses, recommend process improvements, and implement changes to improve the productivity and quality controls of the HIM department. They monitor reports, trends, and health record data integrity according to established policies, procedures, and industry standards. MRAs participate in various health record review activities. They also participate in various facility and regional committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-9, must demonstrate the following Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities i. Knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to health information management and health records. ii. Ability to provide technical advice and guidance on health information management practices. iii. Skill in extracting data from various sources and analyzing health information to create reports. iv. Skill in researching, interpreting, and applying health information management guidelines. v. Knowledge of performance and process improvement techniques to develop new or improved solutions in health information management.


6.
Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience and the ability to demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-9.

 Experience. I have one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics described at that level. Must be documented in your resume.
 Education. I have the education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a master?s degree or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information management. Must provide transcripts, and I can demonstrate the KSAs at this grade level.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for this grade level.


Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11. Assignments. This is considered the full performance level for MRA positions (MRA/HIM Specialist). MRAs work independently in day-to-day assignments. They perform data mining; complex data analysis; and interpret and transform data into accurate, consistent, and timely information in support of the business and operational needs of the HIM department and the organization. They present findings and recommendations to the Chief of HIM (CHIM) and facility leadership. MRAs perform workflow analyses, recommend process improvements, identify and implement best practices, and implement changes as needed to improve the productivity and quality controls of the HIM department. They prepare workload and production reports, monitor trends to identify efficiencies and outliers, and recommend appropriate actions which may involve collaborating with staff at all levels for resolution. The MRA designs and performs quality improvement projects related to health information management to identify and recommend ways of eliminating, combining, simplifying or improving procedures and processes. They compile diagnostic, procedural, and statistical data, and present reports locally, regionally, or nationally. MRAs lead various health record review activities. They participate in various facility, regional, and/or national committees requiring health information management subject matter expertise. The MRA exhibits broad organizational knowledge, communicates and provides training and education to individuals and groups, at multiple levels, both internal and external to the facility. The Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11, must demonstrate the following Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities: i. Skill in performance and process improvement techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management. ii. Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations. iii. Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies or procedures. iv. Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management. v. Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.


7.
Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience and the ability to demonstrate the KSAs for the Medical Records Administration Specialist, GS-11.

 Experience. I have at least one year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates all of the KSAs described at this level.
 Education. I have the education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management.
 I do not have the education or experience, or I cannot demonstrate the KSAs for this grade level.


ALTHOUGH NOT REQUIRED, ITS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THAT APPLICANTS COMPLETE THEIR RESUME' USING THE USAJOBS RESUME' BUILDER. Resume must include how to contact you phone number and email address. Resume Reminder - Your resume must include the following information for each job/experience listed: (REQUIRED) (1.) Employer's Name (2.) Employer's City and State (3.) Job title (Federal jobs must be separated by title and grade level(s)) (4.) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) (5.) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week...i.e. 40 hours per week, 32 hours per week, 20 hours per week, etc. (6.) Duties (be as detailed as possible) Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we can fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Details of your experience and clearly document your ability to demonstrate the KSAs of grade level you are applying for. We do not make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your TRANSCRIPTS with your application. Diplomas are NOT suitable substitutions for your transcripts and will not be accepted. It is the responsibility of the applicant to identity the required courses health information technology courses that are directly related to MRA work by providing a course description from the college or university if not clearly identifiable on the school's transcripts. We do NOT make assumptions from the course number that the listed courses meet the requirements. (REQUIRED)


The only accepted documented proof of certification must be obtained from the AHIMA Website: https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx (https://my.ahima.org/certification/credentialverification.aspx) or the AAPC Website: https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx (https://www.aapc.com/certification/credential-verification.aspx). Failure to provide this proof of your current certification will result in not being referred.


8.
Please enter you AAPC or AHiMA certification type and registration number, i.e. AHIMA - RHIA -1234567
If you have more than one certification, you only need to enter one here. You should list all your certifications on your resume and the application form.



 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙