Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Forest Service
Announcement Number
26-GVA-Q4-13050231-DP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you registered for reemployment consideration AND meet one of the below: 

• Are you a current or former competitive service USDA employee who will be or was separated by Reduction-In-Force (RIF) and received a rating of satisfactory or above as your last annual performance rating? 
OR 
• Are you a former USDA competitive service employee who separated due to a compensable injury or disability?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 9 location(s).
 A. Douglas, AZ
 C. Overgaard, AZ
 D. Prescott, AZ
 E. Tucson, AZ
 F. Bridgeport, CA
 G. Oroville, CA
 H. Quincy, CA
 I. Redding, CA
 J. Upper Lake, CA
 K. Crawfordville, FL
 L. Silver Springs, FL
 M. Fairfield, ID
 N. Ketchum, ID
 O. Soda Springs, ID
 P. Deer River, MN
 Q. Tofte, MN
 R. Rolling Fork, MS
 S. Wiggins, MS
 T. Carson City, NV
 U. Gorham, NH
 V. Cloudcroft, NM
 W. Questa, NM
 X. Tres Piedras, NM
 Y. Hebo, OR
 Z. Manchester, VT
 AA. Richwood, WV
 B. Kemmerer, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7


3.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Please enter at least 3 references below. Include first and last name, phone number and email address.



5.
When we complete our selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources staff at additional federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-06/07 position. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.


This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience needed to qualify for this position. Your answers will be verified against the information that you provide in your resume, application, and information provided by your references. If you are qualifying based on education or combination of education and experience, transcripts must be attached.


1.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Basic Requirements for the Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-06 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as meeting one or more of the following: Compiling and organizing monthly expenditure information for routine budget reporting; reviewing correspondence or documents for grammatical accuracy, correct formatting, and adherence to established guidelines; purchasing routine supplies or special order items, including reconciling purchases in an electronic database; monitoring inventory levels and determining when supplies need replenishment.
 I have one full year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level coursework that is directly related to the work of the position (such as Business or Public Administration, or other administrative or management fields related to the position being filled).
 I have a combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


2.
From the statements below, select the one response that best describes your education and/or experience as it pertains to meeting the Basic Requirements for the Support Services Specialist, GS-0342-07 position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level. Specialized experience is defined as meeting one or more of the following: Collecting and analyzing budgetary information and statistical data for use in the formulation and execution of budget requests, collection of monies, and/or preparation of administrative or financial reports; purchasing supplies, equipment, and services, and reconciling purchases in an electronic database; composing, typing, and proofreading correspondence and narrative or tabular material (such as spreadsheets, databases, or reports) for accuracy, completeness, and compliance with established guidelines.
 I have one full year (18 semester/27 quarter hours) of successfully completed graduate level education if the coursework is directly related to the work of the position (for example; Business or Public Administration, or other administrative or management fields related to the position being filled).
 I have a combination of graduate level education that is directly related to the position and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited college or university. Experience must have demonstrated knowledge of methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in written and oral communications.
 I do not meet the requirement(s) described above.


INSTRUCTIONS: For each item below, in your own words, do not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. Describe a specific instance from your training and/or experience. Your response must include:
1. The situation or assignment, i.e., the challenge faced, the problem to be solved;
2. The specific actions you took;
3. The outcome, results, or long-term impact of your accomplishment;
4. Your position title at the time; and
5. Provide the name and contact information for someone who can verify each accomplishment.



3.
Describe a time when you had to coordinate multiple administrative tasks or deadlines at once (such as administrative records management or front-desk workflow). What steps did you take to plan your work, prioritize tasks, and ensure everything was completed accurately and on time?


4.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



5.
Give an example of a situation where you were responsible for maintaining files or preparing forms, correspondence, or other administrative documents. How did you ensure the materials were complete, accurate, and compliant with the current required formats or guidelines?


6.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



7.
Provide an example of a situation where you were responsible for receiving, tracking, reconciling or distributing resources (such as supplies, equipment, or funds). How did you ensure accountability and accuracy while handling these resources?


8.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



9.
Describe an experience where you assisted a customer, visitor, or coworker who had a complicated question or concern. How did you assess their needs, communicate information clearly, and make sure their expectations were met?



10.
Provide verifier name and contact information.



11.
Please select the statement(s) that reflect your educational achievement(s). Transcripts, certificates, or other appropriate documentation must be included with this application to verify GPA, coursework, degree, and/or completion of trade or vocational school program.

 A. I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.7 or above for all completed courses at the time of this application or for all completed courses during the last two years of high school or college.
 B. I have a GPA of 3.0 or above in my major field of college study for all courses completed at the time of this application or for all courses completed during the last two years of a 4 year curriculum.
 C. I am (was) a member of a college national honor society (does not include a freshman honor society).
 D. I have completed all the requirements for an advanced degree in a field related to this position (e.g., M.A. or Ph.D.).
 E. I have a GPA of 2.7 or above for at least 24 semester hours (or equivalent) of coursework, above the high school level, that is directly related to the work of this position.
 F. I have received a certificate or other indicator of successful completion of a trade or vocational school program that is directly related to the work of this position.
 G. None of the above.


12.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I certify I used my own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot. I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙