Position Title
Dietitian
Agency
Armed Forces Retirement Home
Announcement Number
26-AFRH-12980592-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT:
Bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in the fields of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or related science. The educational program must have been accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For dietitian positions, the curriculum must have been in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) (formerly American Dietetic Association (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation.

- OR -

Completion of a coordinated undergraduate program, internship, or other clinical component approved by American Dietetic Association (formerly ADA) for dietitians or nutritionists.

- OR -

Professional registration as a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN).


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the basic education requirement.
 I have a Bachelors or graduate/higher level degree in the fields of dietetics, food, nutrition, food service management, institution management, or related science. The educational program must have been accredited by the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND), or an accrediting body recognized by the U.S. Department of Education at the time the degree was obtained. For dietitian positions, the curriculum must have been in accordance with the qualifying requirements established by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND)(formerly American Dietetic Association) (ADA) prior to January 1, 2012) in effect at the time of graduation.
 I have completed of a coordinated undergraduate program, internship, or other clinical component approved by AND (formerly ADA) for dietitians or nutritionists.
 I am registered as a Registered Dietitian (RD) or Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN).
 I do not meet any of the basic requirements as stated above.


Specialized Experience for the GS-11 level: You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-09 level. Specialized experience includes:
Directs specialized activities of the food service management administrative function in food quality control, food safety/sanitation, and dietetic services.
Examples:
Conducting nutritional assessments including dietary history and laboratory test for each patient to accurately assess metabolic needs; or
Conducting nutritional education; or
Developing or modifying teaching materials; or
Ensuring provision of acceptable and nutritionally adequate meals for all residents with established budgetary and ration allowances.
OR you may substitute education for general or specialized experience as follows:
Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR
3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.

OR you may qualify by a combination of experience and education:
Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


2.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience as stated above.
 I fully meet all aspects of the GS-11 level of specialized experience as defined above.
 I have completed requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M.
 I am qualified at the GS-11 level because I have a combination of the above-defined education and experience.
 I do not meet or exceed the 1 year of specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement and/or I do not meet the education requirements under any of the above choices.


3.
Please provide the position(s) and/or dates in your resume where this experience is documented.


4.
Which of the following describes your level of experience using the principles, practices and procedures in the field of dietetics? Check all that apply.
 A. Contingency disaster preparedness and special food requirements for geriatric residents.
 B. Administrative dietetic practices required to plan the activities of the section and to participate in the food service management activities.
 C. Variety of principles and practices of dietetics and the relationship of other complex geriatric illnesses and treatment methods to the specialty phase.
 D. Teaching in order to instruct individuals and groups concerning various aspects of their therapeutic diets.
 E. None of the above


5.
Please select all that apply that best describes your experience as a dietician.
 A. Instruct physician, nurses and other staff members in dietary management procedures (i.e. meal service, meal schedule, and tray service procedures).
 B. Assist the Chief Dietitian in planning, scheduling and coordinating the functions of the Clinical Nutrition Section.
 C. Serve on multidisciplinary committees such as Infection Control, Menu Board Meeting, and Ethics Committee Performance Improvement Committee etc.
 D. Perform supervisory duties in the absence of Supervisory Dietitian.
 E. None of the above


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Do you have experience making nutrition calculations and tailoring the diet to patients individual needs?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please give dates and titles of experience that you have listed in your resume.


8.
Please select the answer that best describes your experience communicating dietary needs.
 I have experience instructing physicians, nurses and other staff members in dietary management procedures (i.e. meal service, meal schedule, and tray service procedures).
 I have experience instructing nurses and other staff members in dietary management procedures (i.e. meal service, meal schedule, and tray service procedures).
 I have experience instructing the patient (i.e. meal service, meal schedule, and tray service procedures).
 None of the above


9.
Whom do you have experience providing patient nutrition education to? Select all that apply.
 A. Individual residents and family members
 B. Group classes
 C. Physicians
 D. Social worker
 E. Nutrition staff
 F. None of the above


10.
Select the response(s) that best describes your oral communication experience.
 A. Initiating and maintaining contact with individuals outside the organization.
 B. Exchanging information and discussing issues and options available with multidisciplinary committees
 C. Participating in and representing the organization at briefings, meetings, or conferences.
 D. Providing reasoning and answering questions of residents and family members.
 E. None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙