Position Title
FUL - Administrative Support Assistant (OA)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SE-1628-EVER-26-13028584-FL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
6
7


2.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as Monroe and Miami-Dade counties or 130 miles from the job announcement location.
Location: Dry Tortugas National Park; Homestead and Key West, FL

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Administrative Support Assistant (Office Automation), GS-0303-06/07 position. Your responses to this questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications. Please carefully follow all instructions before submitting your responses. Your ratings are subject to change if discrepancies exist between your responses and supporting documents. From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your qualifications for the Administrative Support Assistant. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. Your resume must fully support the specialized experience outlined in the job announcement to be qualified. No assumptions will be made based on job title or grade level alone.


1.
Select the most appropriate response to indicate how you fulfill the minimum qualification requirement to qualify for the GS-06 level as outlined in the job announcement:

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level, or higher, in the Federal service. Specialized experience demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of an Administrative Support Assistant (OA). Qualifying specialized experience may include: assisting in the preparation of budgets; using various word processing and spreadsheet software; assisting with procurement of services and supplies; assisting with the preparation/reviewing of travel vouchers; and serving as a timekeeper using an automated system.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


2.
Select the most appropriate response to indicate how you fulfill the minimum qualification requirement to qualify for the GS-07 level outlined in the job announcement:

 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 level, or higher, in the Federal service. Specialized experience demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform the duties of an Administrative Support Assistant. Qualifying specialized experience may include: providing a wide variety of administrative support services to enable efficient operation of a business or program office; tracking and reconciling fiscal data for programmed accounts versus actual expenditures; preparing and following up on purchase orders and contracts; administering payroll and workers compensation; preparing human resource employment paperwork and orienting new employees.
 I do not meet the requirement as described above.


In addition to the basic qualifications and specialized experience described above, successful candidates must address the following selective factor. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for this position. (Applicants must document in their resume how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for the position).


3.
Skill in a typing speed of a minimum of 40 words per minute (words per minute are based on a 5-minute sample with three or fewer errors)

 Yes, I currently type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5-minute typing sample with three or fewer errors.
 No, I do not currently type at least 40 words per minute based on a 5-minute test.


4.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the application materials that you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. A deliberate attempt to falsify information on your application materials is grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment. Please choose the appropriate response below:

 I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙