Position Title
Lead Recreation Assistant (Pool/Waterfront Lifeguard)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12899927 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Recreation Assistant Lifeguard Lead (POOL) - Do you possess the below certifications?
International Life Saving Federation or Red Cross Waterfront
CPR for the Professional Rescuer and Emergency Response through the American Red Cross or equivalent
Blood Borne Pathogens
 Yes I have uploaded all the required unexpired documents to be eligible for this position
 Yes I do have all the required unexpired documents but have not uploaded at this time, but if interviewed will be required to provide proof of certification
 No I do not possess the required unexpired documents


2.
How many years of documented experience as a lifeguard have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years
 Six months to One year
 Less than six months or No documented experience


3.
How many years of documented experience compute charges, disperse change accurately, and prepare reports have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years
 One to Two years
 One year or less
 No documented experience


4.
How many years of customer service have you documented on your resume?
 Two plus years.
 One to Two years.
 One year or less
 No documented experience


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙