Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (PACS)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12883207-26-JEK Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Mar 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Please provide your driver's license number, issuing state and expiration date. Reminder - Do not include a copy of your license; if referred for interview it may be requested at that time.


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Picture Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS) Technologist. Technologists working in this special assignment use their knowledge of radiology workflow and processes in conjunction with a specialized technical skillset to support and troubleshoot image processing, display, and storage systems. The PACS technologist also provides oversight and support of PACS display workstations, interfaces, secondary applications, speech recognition and other hardware that is critical to departmental efficiency and throughput.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Be a citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified candidates in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g.)

Are you a citizen of the United States?

 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and7407(d).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


3.
Certification Requirement: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R). Advanced ARRT certification is required for assignments that include computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or Mammography (M) duties performed independently, as applicable]. Advanced certification indicates that the incumbent can operate independently] and has demonstrated specific clinical competency in the appropriate specialty and taken and passed the designated examination. In modalities that require advanced certification, to support their continued development, technologists who do not possess an advanced certification may be provided on the job training with oversight from a certified radiologic technologist.
 
Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT)(R)?
 
Note: A copy of Certification is required with application package.
 Yes
 No


4.
Education Requirement: Applicant must have successfully completed of a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the Department of Education (DOE).
 
Do you meet this Education Requirement (Transcripts are recommended with application package)?
 
Note: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.
 Yes
 No


5.
 GS-11 Grade Level Required Experience: PACS Technologist. This position serves as a liaison for the Office of Information and Technology (OI&T), Biomedical Engineering staff and clinical users to ensure the PACS system is configured to optimize imaging including distribution capabilities; develops methods and programs to evaluate, monitor and maintain digital imaging and voice recognition systems; serves as team leader in planning, developing, and instructing users in the operation of PACS network elements, the integration of these with related systems, and recommends corresponding upgrades. This position researches and or/analyzes problems, issues, or program requirements supporting the functions of a digital imaging system; performs complex system administrator functions such as: oversight of RIS (Hospital Information System/Radiology Information System) links necessary to interface with the HIS (Hospital Information System), Application Entity (AE) titles, individual and user group creation, and access management, system filters, exam code dictionaries, DICOM configuration testing, hanging protocols, voice file exchange, and other duties associated with this position. The incumbent ensures compliance with all national and VA information and security requirements, including archiving of images to VistA imaging. This position may independently function as a DRT, which may include complex modality such as CT, MR, mammography, ultrasound, and IR.

The candidate must demonstrate all of the following technical KSAs:
Knowledge of contingency plans during equipment downtimes.
Ability to act as liaison for Radiology with biomedical engineering and OI&T.
Ability to develop methods and programs to evaluate, monitor, and maintain digital imaging and voice recognition systems.
Ability to lead a team of multidisciplinary members in accomplishing strategic planning and integration of PACS and network elements.
Ability to perform complex system administrator functions such as: oversight of RIS (Hospital Information System/Radiology Information System) links, AE titles, individual and user group creation and access management, etc.
Knowledge of VA and other national guidelines pertaining to PACS network, VistA imaging, and database security.
Knowledge of specific positioning, technique, and imaging procedures so he/she will be able to perform and reconcile image information correctly and efficiently during technical post processing and evaluation.
 
Do you have at least one (1) year of experience at the next lower grade level of GS-10 as described above?
 Yes
 No


FINAL INSTRUCTIONS:  
PLEASE DO NOT INCLUDE A PHOTO IN YOUR RESUME
RESUME REMINDER- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties: be as detailed as possible
Month & year start/end dates: (e.g. June 2017 to April 2021)
Full-time or part-time status: (include hours worked per week) Your experience is based on full-time years of specialized experience. If you do not include the hours worked we cannot assume that you have the required amount of specialized experience and you may not be considered for the position.
 
Series and Grade: for all Federal positions you have held.  Failure to provide this information may result in an ineligible rating.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
 
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.
***We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.***
 
SF-50 Reminder for Federal Employees - Must be most current to verify eligibility and show position, grade, and status. "Award" SF-50s are NOT acceptable. 
 
Transcripts Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.
 
Professional Certification Reminder - You must submit a copy of a current active certification. 
 
Please make sure you submit all required documentation before the closing date of the announcement.
 
FAILURE TO SUBMIT THE APPROPRIATE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS WILL CAUSE YOU TO BE INELIGIBLE FOR CONISDERATION OF THIS POSITION.
 
You will not be able to submit documents after the closing date of this announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙