Position Title
Blind Rehab Outpatient Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBST-12882916-26-FIJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 12, 2026 to Mar 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
A current, valid state-issued Driver's License is required for this position. NOTE: We cannot accept photographs, therefore; please do not submit a copy of your license with your application package. If an interview is requested, you will be required to provide a copy of your current, valid state-issued Driver's License.

Do you possess a current and valid state-issued driver's license?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. We will evaluate your resume, supporting documents, and responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you meet the eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and other application documents. You will not be contacted for missing information or documents. All information and documents are due at the time of application.


The below will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements for appointment as a Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English.

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?

Select the appropriate response.
 Yes
 No


2.
BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Applicants for all Blind Rehabilitation Outpatient Specialist positions must meet one of the following basic education requirements. Please select the most appropriate response below:
 I have a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, [or a closely] related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education. (Transcripts required)
 I have a master's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, [or a closely] related program in rehabilitation, special education, family and consumer science education, technology, and industrial arts education. (Transcripts required)
 I have a bachelor or master degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined in (1)(a) and (b) above) and obtained a certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy. This education must have included supervised practice; and Completion of one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the BRS, GS-9 grade level. (Transcripts required)
 I have three (3) years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a doctoral degree in blind rehabilitation or a directly related field. Note: Foreign graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation. (Transcripts required)
 I do not meet the education requirement.
 I am covered by grandfathering provision. All BROS employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are covered under grandfather provision, considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.


3.
CERTIFCATION: Required at all levels. Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full, and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment. Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP).

NOTE: The Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP) administers four (4) certification programs: Low Vision Therapy, Orientation, and Mobility, Certified Assistive Technology Instructions Specialist and Vision Rehabilitation Therapy. They may then use the designation for the certification they hold (as listed in subparagraph (2) below:

BROS who provide the following services must obtain and maintain one certification at the GS-11 grade level and two certifications at the GS-12 grade level granted by ACVREP as follows:

(a) Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists(COMS).
(b) Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT).
(c) Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
(d) Assistive technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialist(CATIS).
 Yes
 I am covered by grandfathering provision. All BROS employed in VHA in this occupation on the effective date of this qualification standard are covered under grandfather provision, considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification(s) that are part of the basic requirements of the occupation.
 No


GRADE LEVEL DETERMINATIONS: In addition to the basic requirements, the following criteria must be used when determining the appropriate grade assignment of candidates.


4.
BROS, GS-11 (Entry level)

(1) Experience. None beyond the basic requirements.

(2) Certification. Candidates must meet the certification requirements in subparagraph 2c above (at least one certification from ACVREP).
(3) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must also demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
(b) Ability to properly assess a wide variety of patients having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
(c) Skill in development and writing of a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
(d) Knowledge of teaching methods and learning principles.
(e) Ability to employ interventions, unusual motivational techniques, and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan.
(f) Skill in recommending appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for patients within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.
(g) Ability to plan, direct, and distribute work assignments to volunteers, assistants, interns, and/or BRSs at lower grade levels and perform assigned mentoring duties for staff, students, and interns.

Do you meet the basic requirements for this grade level and demonstrate the knowledge skills and abilities?
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement for this grade level and demonstrates the knowledge skills and abilities.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirement for this grade level or demonstrates the knowledge skills and abilities.


5.
BROS, GS-12 (Full Performance Level)

(1) Experience. In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of a minimum of 1 year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level is required.
(2) Certification. Candidates must meet the certification requirements in subparagraph3c above. BROS at the GS-12 grade level must achieve two ACVREP certifications to demonstrate full mastery in two areas of blind rehabilitation.

(3) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). In addition to meeting the KSAs at the GS-11 grade level, the candidate must fully demonstrate all of the following KSAs:

(a) Skill to independently develop, plan, and administer complex treatment programs.
(b) Ability to act as a subject matter expert in the blind/vision rehabilitation field and as consultant, supervisor and/or mentor in evaluating and treating patients in specialty or program areas.
(c) Ability to coordinate, motivate, and effectively manage staff and/or committee members to include organizing work, setting priorities, and delegating tasks and responsibilities. 
(d) Ability to disseminate appropriate information through various media as a consultant or mentor.
(e) Skill in interpersonal relationships in dealing with patients, employees, other team leaders, managers, and other stakeholders.
(f) Ability to identify team group dynamics, objectively observe, and modify behaviors.
(g) Ability to apply decision-making principles to adjust programs on a day-to-day basis, to develop short-term and long-range goals, and to plan for future utilization of resources.

Do you meet the requirements for this grade level and demonstrate the knowledge skills and abilities?
 Yes, I meet the requirement for this grade level and demonstrates the knowledge skills and abilities.
 No, I do not meet the requirement for this grade level and demonstrates the knowledge skills and abilities.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙