Position Title
Interdisciplinary
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12922330-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 B. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 C. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Civil Engineer, Civil Engineer (Structural), Electrical Engineer, and Mechanical Engineer in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor?s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, and have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Civil Engineer, Civil Engineer (Structural), Electrical Engineer, Mechanical Engineer at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Experience in the design and preparation of scopes of work for a variety of structures/projects including but not limited to pumping plants, large earthen dams, environmental site remediation, revetments, stone bank paving, large office buildings, major floating plant, archeological investigation and recovery, bridges, drainage structures, levees, channels, and recreation sites. Advising and assisting in all phases of Architect Engineering contract procurement such as preparation of the contract specifications, preparation of scopes of work, and providing technical advice to professional Engineers and specialists concerning Architect Engineering contract processes. Provide input to the preparation and finalization of statements of work and to review and ensure the accuracy and completeness of statements of work.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position, such as Engineering. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2

INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation.

Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting.

There are no right or wrong answers.
Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making.
This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background.

Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.



1.
You are managing multiple Architect-Engineering contract procurement timelines when you receive an urgent request from the Engineering Division to expedite an Architect-Engineering task order due to an unexpected award deadline that has been moved up by 30 days. This change affects three ongoing contract negotiations and requires immediate coordination with pre-selection teams. Your supervisor is in meetings all day, and the Contracting Officer needs your recommendation by tomorrow morning. What is your most appropriate course of action?

 Delegate the urgent project coordination to available team members while maintaining the original schedules for other contracts, assuming the pre-selection teams can handle the additional workload without formal coordination or supervisory approval.
 Immediately assess the impact on all affected contracts, prioritize based on mission criticality, develop a revised timeline with contingency options, and send a detailed status memo to your supervisor with your recommended approach and request guidance on resource allocation.
 Focus resources on the urgent flood control project by suspending non-critical contract activities, document the schedule changes, and coordinate with affected Architect-Engineering firms to explain the delays while keeping your supervisor informed through email updates.
 Proceed with rescheduling all contract activities to meet the new deadline, notify the Contracting Officer that you can accommodate the change, and plan to discuss the resource implications with your supervisor after implementing the revised schedule.
 Contact the pre-selection teams to determine their availability for accelerated reviews, reschedule the lower-priority contract activities to accommodate the urgent timeline, and brief your supervisor first thing tomorrow morning before providing recommendations to the Contracting Officer.


2.
You are preparing for negotiations on three 8(a) Architect-Engineering contracts task orders scheduled for next month: a $2M task order for small drainage structures, a $1.5M task order for recreation facilities, and a $800K task order for bank stabilization projects. The A-E firms have submitted their proposals, but you notice significant variations in their approaches to overhead rates and the government estimate shows potential discrepancies. The negotiation team members have conflicting availability, and one firm has requested a pre-negotiation conference. How should you proceed with planning these negotiations?

 Prioritize the negotiations by contract value, resolve team scheduling conflicts by identifying alternate members, conduct a thorough review of overhead rate variations with the Contracting Officer, and schedule the pre-negotiation conference to address the requesting firm's concerns before formal negotiations.
 Arrange negotiations in order of proposal submission, prepare standard negotiation materials for all three contracts, plan to address estimate discrepancies as they arise during negotiations, and schedule the pre-negotiation conference after completing the other two negotiations.
 Analyze all proposals against government estimates to identify key negotiation points, coordinate with technical specialists to resolve estimate discrepancies, schedule negotiations based on contract complexity and team availability, and arrange the requested pre-negotiation conference while developing specific strategies for each contract.
 Proceed with negotiations using the original government estimates without further analysis, schedule all three negotiations simultaneously to expedite the process, and handle the pre-negotiation conference request as an informal discussion during the regular negotiation session.
 Schedule all negotiations consecutively to maximize team efficiency, focus preparation efforts on the highest-value contract, address the overhead rate discrepancies during negotiations, and accommodate the pre-negotiation conference request while maintaining the planned timeline.


3.
While using ACASS to prepare for an upcoming Architect-Engineering pre-selection for a major lock and dam rehabilitation project, you discover that the system shows conflicting past performance data for two firms that are likely to be among the most qualified. One firm shows excellent ratings for similar projects in another district but poor ratings for a recent local project, while another firm has limited recent experience but strong historical performance. The pre-selection team meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, and they will rely on your analysis to make their recommendations. What is your best approach?

 Present the conflicting data to the pre-selection team as-is with a brief explanation of the discrepancies, recommend that they consider both the positive and negative aspects, and suggest that the team make their own determination based on the available information.
 Focus on the most recent performance data as the primary indicator, supplement with additional research on the firms' current capabilities and staffing and provide the pre-selection team with a clear assessment that emphasizes recent performance trends over historical data.
 Use only the positive performance data from ACASS since the conflicting information might be due to system errors, focus the pre-selection team's attention on the firms' technical qualifications rather than past performance, and recommend proceeding with standard evaluation criteria.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of both firms' performance data by contacting the relevant districts to verify and clarify the conflicting information, document your findings with supporting details, and prepare a balanced assessment that presents both the strengths and concerns for each firm to the pre-selection team.
 Research the specific circumstances behind the conflicting ratings by reviewing project files and contacting previous contracting officers, prepare detailed performance summaries for both firms highlighting the context of each rating, and present your findings with recommendations to the pre-selection team.


4.
During negotiations for an 8(a) Architect-Engineering contract for designing small water control structures, the contractor's representative argues that their proposed overhead rate of 165% is justified due to specialized equipment costs and recent staff certifications. Your government estimate assumed a 140% overhead rate based on similar contracts. The contractor provides documentation showing increased insurance costs and new CAD software investments, but some expenses appear to include items typically covered under direct costs. The negotiation team is looking to you for guidance on how to proceed. What is your most appropriate response?

 Accept the contractor's documentation at face value for legitimate business expenses, focus negotiations on other contract elements where cost savings might be achieved, and agree to the higher overhead rate while ensuring the total contract value remains within acceptable limits.
 Agree to the 165% overhead rate since the contractor has provided supporting documentation, expedite the negotiation process by accepting their cost structure, and focus on finalizing the contract terms to meet the project timeline requirements.
 Challenge the overhead rate by pointing out that the government estimate reflects current market conditions, request that the contractor justify why their rate should exceed the estimate and maintain the position that 140% is the maximum acceptable rate based on comparable contracts.
 Review the contractor's documentation with the team to verify the legitimacy of increased costs, compare their overhead structure to industry standards and recent similar contracts, and negotiate a compromise rate that recognizes valid cost increases while maintaining government cost objectives.
 Request a detailed breakdown of all overhead components, analyze each expense category against standard cost accounting principles, identify items that should be reclassified as direct costs, and negotiate a revised overhead rate based on allowable indirect costs while acknowledging legitimate business investments.


5.
A project engineer approaches you for assistance with developing the scope of work for an Architect-Engineering contract to design a complex pumping station. The engineer has prepared a preliminary scope but is uncertain about the level of detail needed for geotechnical investigations, the extent of environmental coordination required, and whether to include 3D modeling requirements. The project has unique foundation challenges due to soil conditions, and the timeline is aggressive. The engineer asks for your guidance on finalizing the scope to ensure it attracts qualified firms while avoiding scope creep during contract execution. How do you do best to assist?

 Collaborate with the engineer to analyze the unique project challenges, recommend including contingency provisions for additional geotechnical work if needed, suggest standard environmental coordination requirements with flexibility for site-specific issues, and help structure the scope to attract experienced firms while maintaining cost control.
 Suggest using a standard pumping station scope as a template with modifications for the specific site conditions, recommend minimal geotechnical requirements initially with provisions for additional work orders, and focus on developing a scope that can be quickly finalized to meet the aggressive timeline.
 Review the preliminary scope with the engineer to identify critical technical requirements, consult with geotechnical and environmental specialists to determine appropriate investigation levels, research similar complex projects to establish realistic deliverable expectations, and help develop a comprehensive scope that balances technical needs with clear performance standards.
 Advise the engineer to include comprehensive geotechnical and environmental requirements upfront to avoid contract modifications later, recommend requiring 3D modeling to ensure thorough design development, and help develop detailed specifications that clearly define all expected deliverables and performance criteria.
 Recommend that the engineer consult directly with potential Architect-Engineering contractors to determine what scope elements they prefer, suggest including all possible requirements to ensure comprehensive coverage, and advise finalizing the scope based on what has worked for previous projects regardless of site-specific conditions.


6.
While monitoring an ongoing Architect-Engineering contract for designing flood control improvements, you notice that the contractor's monthly progress report indicates they are 15% behind schedule on the hydraulic analysis phase, and their recent submittal lacks the detailed modeling data specified in the contract. The contractor attributes the delay to unexpected coordination requirements with a state environmental agency, but the contract includes provisions for such coordination. The COR has expressed concerns about the quality of recent deliverables, and the project deadline cannot be extended due to construction season constraints. What is your most appropriate monitoring response?

 Address the schedule delay by requiring the contractor to provide a recovery plan, note the technical deficiencies for correction in the next submittal, and continue standard monitoring procedures while documenting all issues for potential use in future contractor evaluations.
 Meet with the contractor to discuss the schedule delays and technical issues, review their coordination efforts with the state agency to determine if additional contract time is warranted, work with the COR to establish quality standards for future submittals, and implement enhanced monitoring procedures to prevent further delays.
 Focus on the immediate technical deficiencies by requiring the contractor to resubmit the hydraulic analysis with complete modeling data, accept their explanation for the delay while emphasizing the importance of meeting future milestones, and increase the frequency of progress reviews to ensure closer oversight.
 Document the schedule deviation and technical deficiencies, review the contract requirements with the contractor to clarify expectations, coordinate with the COR to assess the impact on overall project delivery, and develop a corrective action plan with specific milestones while considering potential contract remedies if performance doesn't improve.
 Accept the contractor's explanation for both the delay and technical issues since environmental coordination can be unpredictable, focus monitoring efforts on ensuring the final deliverable meets contract requirements, and avoid taking formal action that might further delay the project.


7.
You must provide a debriefing to a well-established Architect-Engineering firm that was not selected for a major dam safety project. The firm has worked successfully with your district in the past but was eliminated during pre-selection due to their proposed project manager lacking the required dam safety certification and their recent performance rating on a similar project being below acceptable standards. The firm's senior partner has requested a meeting and expressed frustration about the decision, suggesting that their long-standing relationship with the district should have been given more weight. How do you conduct this debriefing?

 Prepare a structured presentation that clearly explains the pre-selection criteria and evaluation process, provide specific feedback on the certification deficiency and performance concerns while acknowledging their past contributions, offer constructive suggestions for future submissions, and maintain a professional tone that focuses on objective evaluation standards rather than subjective relationships.
 Meet with the firm to explain that the selection process is based on current qualifications and recent performance rather than historical relationships, provide specific feedback about the certification and performance issues, and suggest ways they can strengthen future proposals while maintaining a respectful but firm position on the decision.
 Schedule a comprehensive meeting to review their proposal against the selection criteria, explain the importance of current certifications and recent performance in the evaluation process, provide detailed feedback on areas for improvement, and emphasize that all firms are evaluated using the same objective standards regardless of past relationships.
 Emphasize that the selection was very competitive and that their non-selection doesn't reflect poorly on their capabilities, avoid providing specific details about the certification and performance issues to maintain positive relationships, and encourage them to continue pursuing future opportunities with the district.
 Acknowledge their past successful work with the district while explaining that current regulations require strict adherence to qualification criteria, focus the discussion on the certification deficiency as the primary reason for non-selection, and suggest they reapply for future opportunities once the certification issue is resolved.


8.
Representatives from three different Architect-Engineering firms have scheduled visits this week to discuss upcoming opportunities for environmental restoration projects. One firm specializes in wetland restoration, another focuses on habitat enhancement, and the third has broad environmental capabilities but limited local experience. Each firm is seeking information about project timelines, scope expectations, and teaming opportunities. You need to provide helpful information while maintaining fairness and avoiding any appearance of providing competitive advantages to specific firms. How do you handle these meetings?

 Conduct the meetings to provide general information about the district's environmental mission and typical project requirements, focus discussions on helping each firm understand how their capabilities align with district needs, provide standard information about procurement processes, and encourage them to develop local partnerships if they lack regional experience.
 Arrange a group meeting with all three firms to efficiently share information about upcoming projects, encourage them to discuss potential teaming arrangements during the meeting, provide detailed information about specific projects in development, and offer to facilitate introductions between firms with complementary capabilities.
 Schedule brief meetings to provide basic information about upcoming environmental projects, focus on answering their specific questions about project types and timelines, provide general guidance about the district's procurement processes, and suggest they contact the Contracting Office for detailed information about specific opportunities.
 Meet with each firm individually to discuss their capabilities in relation to general types of environmental work the district anticipates, provide information about typical project scopes and procurement timelines, ensure all firms receive equivalent information about upcoming opportunities, and suggest they monitor FedBizOps for specific project announcements.
 Prepare standardized information packets about upcoming environmental projects, schedule separate meetings with each firm to discuss general project types and timelines, provide the same level of detail to all firms about procurement processes and evaluation criteria, and document each meeting to ensure consistent information sharing while encouraging firms to review public announcements for specific opportunities.


9.
You need to prepare correspondence to an Architect-Engineering firm regarding their recent submittal for a levee improvement project that contains several technical deficiencies and does not fully address the contract requirements for seepage analysis. The firm's project manager is new to federal projects, and this is their second inadequate submittal. The COR has requested that you clearly communicate the deficiencies while providing guidance to help the firm meet contract requirements. The project timeline is tight, and further delays could impact on construction scheduling. What approach do you take in preparing this correspondence?

 Prepare a straightforward letter that lists the technical deficiencies found in the submittal, references the specific contract sections that were not adequately addressed, requests a revised submittal that fully complies with contract requirements, and emphasizes the need to meet project deadlines without further delays.
 Draft a detailed letter that clearly identifies each technical deficiency with specific references to contract requirements, provides constructive guidance on how to address the seepage analysis shortcomings, includes relevant technical standards and examples, establishes a firm but reasonable deadline for resubmittal, and offers to schedule a coordination meeting to discuss complex technical requirements.
 Draft a brief letter that generally describes the submittal as inadequate, requests that the firm review their work more carefully before resubmitting, mentions that this is their second deficient submittal, and warns that continued poor performance could result in contract action without providing specific technical guidance.
 Write a professional letter that identifies the main technical deficiencies and contract requirement gaps, provides general guidance on addressing the seepage analysis issues, references applicable technical standards, and requests a corrected submittal within a specified timeframe while noting the project's schedule constraints.
 Prepare comprehensive correspondence that lists all deficiencies with clear explanations of what is required, provides technical guidance and references to help the firm understand federal project standards, sets expectations for the quality of the resubmittal, and emphasizes the importance of meeting the deadline while offering technical assistance if needed.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙