Position Title
BUILDING MANAGER LEAD
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12842938 Opens in new window
Open Period
Monday, December 1, 2025 to Friday, December 5, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
What is your documented level of customer service experience?
 Documented experience is greater than 3 years.
 Documented experience is between 1 and 3 years.
 Documented experience is less than 1 year.
 No documented experience.


2.
Do you possess a valid driver's license?
 Yes, I possess a valid driver's license.
 No, I do not possess a valid driver's license.


3.
Describe your documented experience level and using a personal computer and various software programs.
 Documented experience is greater than 3 years.
 Documented experience is between 1 and 3 years.
 Documented experience is less than 1 year.
 No documented experience using a personal computer or various software programs.


4.
Do you possess basic math and reading skills along with the ability to effectively communicate, orally and in writing, with personnel of all grades and ranks?
 Yes
 No


5.
Describe your documented professional knowledge of lodging organization.
 Documented experience is greater than 3 years that involves working in Unaccompanied Housing, Military Housing and Lodging, student or recruit barracks.
 Documented experience is between 1 and 3 years that involves working in Unaccompanied Housing, Military Housing and Lodging, student or recruit barracks.


6.
Do you have at least 3 years of work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, regulations and administration related to maintenance operations?
 Yes , I have at least 3 years of work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, regulations and administration related to maintenance operations.
 No, I do not have at least 3 years of work experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, standards, regulations and administration related to maintenance operations.


7.
Describe your documented experience related to maintenance operations.
 Documented experience is greater than 3 years.
 Documented experience is between 1 and 3 years.
 Documented experience is less than 1 year.


8.
Describe your documented leadership level of experience.
 Documented experience is greater than 3 years.
 Documented experience is between 1 and 3 years
 Documented experience is less than 1 year.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙