Position Title
Agency Mail Manager
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12856714-HQ-CA-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 23, 2025 to Jan 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
The applicant is required to reside in the local commuting area to be eligible for consideration.  Do you currently live within 50 miles radius of the duty location (Washington, DC)?

 Yes
 No


5.
This position requires occasional travel away from normal duty station. You must be able to travel on military and commercial aircraft for extended periods of time. Are you willing to travel for official business?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Agency Mail Manager position with the U. S. Coast Guard.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Agency Mail Manager work at the GS-13 level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
I possess one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the Agency Mail Manager grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. Specialized experience must demonstrate the following: 1) Utilize administrative laws, policies, regulations, and precedents applicable to the administration of mail management to include hazardous and dangerous goods, next generation delivery service, penalty mail stamps, and Foreign Post Office (FPO) mobile Mail Routing; 2) Provide expert analysis and advice on complex program issues impacting a major organization's postal and mail enterprise; 3) Establish broad, written policies and procedures to provide timely and cost-effective dispatch and delivery of mail and other material; 4) Prepare reports and briefings on results of studies that ensures the program goals, objectives, and operations are in line with the organization's mission; and 4) Develop mail security policies and plans, ensuring the protection of all mail processing to prevent, deter, and mitigate the deliberate efforts to destroy, incapacitate, or exploit the mail center and/or infrastructure.
 Yes, I have experience performing duties listed above.
 No, my experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙