Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (POLICY AND PLANNING)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADMDC-26-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Seaside, CA
 B. San Antonio, TX
 C. Alexandria, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
13
14


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Information Technology Specialist (Policy & Planning), GS-2210-13 position. This IT related experience shows my attention to detail, customer service, oral communication, and problem solving. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all of the statements below completely before making your selection.
 For the Information Technology Specialist (Policy & Planning), GS-2210-13, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-12) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Experience managing a product backlog, writing user stories, and defining acceptance criteria using Agile tools like JIRA. Proficiency in Agile ceremonies (e.g., Sprint Planning, Sprint Reviews) and creating artifacts like process flows and diagrams. A foundational understanding of the software development lifecycle, with the ability to interpret architecture diagrams and system designs. Foundational knowledge of database, networking, and cloud computing (e.g., AWS, OCI) concepts. Experience defining system integration requirements and collaborating with quality assurance teams on software testing, including User Acceptance Test and integration testing. Skilled in analyzing data from DoD information systems to support product development and ensure compliance.
 My experience is not reflected in the statement above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes your highest-level of experience for the Information Technology Specialist (Policy & Planning), GS-2210-14 position. This IT related experience shows my attention to detail, customer service, oral communication, and problem solving. To be creditable, specialized experience must be at the next lower grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. Read all of the statements below completely before making your selection.
 For the Information Technology Program Manager (Policy & Planning), GS-2210-14, I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade-level (GS-13) in the federal service which is in or directly related to the line of work of the position. Creditable specialized experience includes the following: Proven experience defining and owning the product vision and strategic roadmap, using portfolio management tools to align with enterprise goals and report to senior leadership. Demonstrated leadership in championing Agile methodologies across teams, directing scope, and making priority trade-offs based on technical and business constraints. Expertise in directing the creation and application of architecture diagrams to communicate a product's strategic technical direction. A strong technical background in the software development lifecycle, database, networking, and cloud computing, enabling authoritative guidance on technology and infrastructure decisions. Experience leading complex technical discussions on system architecture, scalability, security, and performance. Extensive experience directing the strategy for system interoperability and leading integration and quality assurance efforts across multiple agencies. Ability to direct the analysis of data from complex, integrated sources to drive strategic decisions and justify IT investments.
 My experience is not reflected in the statement above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙