Position Title
Financial Management Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12944281-WE-NL-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 23, 2026 to May 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee within the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Oakland, CA
 B. Honolulu, HI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


3.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the pay plan of the highest graded position you held on a permanent basis.


4.
If you are, or ever were, a Federal civilian employee, please indicate the dates of the highest graded position you held. (MM-YYYY to MM-YYYY or Present)


5.
Which of the following responses BEST represents your performance rating?
 I received the highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received the second highest rating attainable and received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system within the past 5 years and it was in a related position.
 I received a performance award under my organizations performance appraisal system on a performance appraisal received within the past 5 years in a related or unrelated position.
 I do not meet any of the performance rating described above.


6.
Which of the following BEST represents your awards history? Awards include sustained superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, meritorious civilian service awards, quality step increases, and other equivalent awards. Letters of commendation and appreciation are NOT creditable.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, within the past 5 years for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I received an award(s), such as those defined above, more than 5 years ago for service, accomplishments, or initiatives in a related position.
 I have not received any awards.


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your experience and/or education which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Position Financial Management Specialist GS-0501-11.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service to include: assisting with monitoring, reviewing, and analyzing the execution of approved budgets and resource management plans to ensure funds are obligated and expended in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and organizational policies; or assisting with tracking financial transactions and variances; or identifying discrepancies; assisting with the accuracy and integrity of financial data reflecting the status of commitments, obligations, and expenditures; or assisting with funds manager duties by verifying the availability of funds for procurement requests and contract obligations; or assisting with resolving routine discrepancies to support compliant and effective financial operations; assisting with the delivery of financial management orientation and training to incoming unit and staff personnel; or providing basic financial management guidance to co-workers within contracting; assisting in the accumulation of financial data and analyzing historical data; or providing basic guidance on established financial procedures and policies; or assisting in the preparation of reports and analyses to ensure accurate, compliant, and effective financial operations; and assisting with analyzing processing flows, operations, financial systems, and standards to identify problems; or reviewing and tracking trends in funds and expenditures against projects.
 I have completed three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in a related field of study from an accredited college and/or university. One full year of full-time graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent one year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from the school, 18 semester hours will satisfy the one year of full-time study requirement.
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in “A” above and graduate education as described in “B” above. To combine education and experience, determine the applicant’s total qualifying experience as a percentage of the experience required for the grade level. Then determine the applicant’s education as a percentage of the education required for the grade level (note: only graduate education in excess of 2 full years, 36 semester hours or equivalent is creditable). Finally, add two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED AT TIME OF APPLICATION)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response which best describes your experience and/or education which meets the Minimum Qualification Requirements for Position Financial Management Specialist GS-0501-12.
 I have one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service to include: independently monitoring, reviewing, and analyzing the execution of budgets and resource management plans to ensure funds are obligated and expended in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, and organizational policies; or tracking financial transactions and variances; or identifying discrepancies; independently executing fund certification actions in approved financial management systems; ensuring the accuracy and integrity of financial data related to commitments, obligations, and expenditures; or serving as funds manager by reviewing and validating the availability of funds for procurement requests and contract obligations; or resolving complex funding issues or discrepancies; serving as a subject matter expert to provide financial management training to staff, contracting, planning and resources personnel; or providing authoritative guidance on financial policies, procedures, and financial systems; independently accumulating and analyzing financial and historical data to determine total expected annual program budgetary requirements; or identifying trends, variances, and potential funding issues; or preparing analyses and recommendations to support financial decision-making; independently analyzing processing flows, operations, financial systems, and standards to identify problems; or documenting findings through financial reports and preparing recommendations for management attention; or reviewing and tracking trends in funds.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard Employee in the local commuting area?
 Yes
 No


4.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.
 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


5.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge, that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙