Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12866093-SE-BK-DHA-R1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 10, 2026 to Jun 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Assessment 1
1.
Choose one answer that best describes your education as related to the occupational requirement for this position.
 A 4 year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a major in any field.
 At least 24 semester hours in any combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods or organization and management.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


2.
To meet the additional qualification requirements for GS-11, select the option that best describes your education and/or experience:
 I have at least one full year of experience equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service. This experience includes the full range of acquisition functions.
 Completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education in accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management, or a combination of these fields.
 I have a combination of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in or related to the work of this position and graduate level education in one or a combination of the following fields: accounting, business, finance, law, contracts, purchasing, economics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organization and management that provided the specific knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


3.
To meet the additional qualification requirements for GS-12, select the option that best describes your education and/or experience:
 I have at least one full year of experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service. This experience includes the full range of acquisition functions.
 I do not meet any of the requirements described above.


4.
What level of Federal Acquisition in Contracting Certification (FAC-C) or Defense Acquisition Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certification do you possess?
 I possess a current Level I FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 I possess a current Level II FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 I possess a current Level III FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 I previously held a Level I FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 I previously held a Level II FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 I previously held a Level III FAC-C/DAWIA certification.
 I do not nor have I ever possessed a FAC-C/DAWIA certification at any level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙