Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (Finance)
Agency
Treasury, Departmental Offices
Announcement Number
26-DO-12966483-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
14
15


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Assessment 1
Specialized experience for the GS-15:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service. The expectation for selection for grade GS-15 will be at least the following: 12 months of pertinent legal experience at the GS-14 (or equivalent) level. For this position, specialized experience is described as experience at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the following areas of responsibility:
Providing authoritative legal advice, counsel, and recommendations on financial services regulation; digital assets; securities and capital markets regulation; consumer financial protection; cybersecurity policy; federal financial assistance and grant programs; housing finance; government or corporate financial transactions; and/or federal payments and debt collection.


1.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-14 level or equivalent as described above.


2.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Specialized experience for the GS-14:
You must have one year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-13 grade level in the federal service. The expectation for selection for grade GS-14 will be at least the following: 12 months of pertinent legal experience at the GS-13(or equivalent). For this position, specialized experience is described as experience at the next lower grade (or equivalent) in the following areas of responsibility:
Providing legal advice, analysis, and recommendations on financial services regulation; digital assets; securities and capital markets regulation; consumer financial protection; cybersecurity policy; federal financial assistance and grant programs; housing finance; government or corporate financial transactions; and/or federal payments and debt collection.


3.
Select the answer that best describes your experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent as described above.


4.
Please specify where you have documented the above experience in your resume. (Indicate place of employment, job title, and length of time performing the duties).


Applicants must:
(1) be a graduate of an accredited law school with a LL.B., J.D. or equivalent;
(2) be an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
Are you a graduate of an accredited law school with a LL.B, J.D., or an equivalent degree?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙