Position Title
Student Trainee (Paralegal Specialist)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
ENRD-26-046-EXC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 29, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you applying under the Pathways Internship Program
The Internship Program replaces the Student Career Experience Program (SCEP) and Student Temporary Employment Program (STEP). This Program is designed to provide students enrolled in a wide variety of educational institutions, from high school to graduate level, with opportunities to work in agencies and explore Federal careers while still in school and while getting paid for the work performed. Students who successfully complete the program may be eligible for conversion to a permanent job in the civil service. Additional information about the Internship Program can be found at USAJOBS (external link). Here are some key provisions of the Internship Program.

Eligibility
Current students in an accredited high school, college (including 4-year colleges/universities, community colleges, and junior colleges); professional, technical, vocational, and trade school; advanced degree programs; or other qualifying educational institution pursuing a qualifying degree or certificate. For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources...

To verify your eligibility, you must provide proof of current student status.
Note: You must remain enrolled in the degree or certificate program to be eligible for this Internship.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


Assessment 1
1.
When do you expect to graduate or obtain your degree or certificate from an accredited education institution? This question applies to the school enrollment that you are pursuing for this position. It does not apply to a degree that you have already obtained.
 2026
 Spring 2027
 Summer 2027
 December 2027 or Beyond
 None of the above


2.
In accordance with the Pathways Programs Requirements, the selectee must sign an ENRD Internship Program Participant Agreement that states the internship period, work schedule, position information, and program requirements. I am willing to sign an ENRD Internship Program Participant Agreement.

 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with the Pathways Intern Program required education, I am currently enrolled or have been accepted for enrollment and seeking a degree, diploma, or certificate in an accredited college or university on a full or half-time basis, as defined by the educational institution. (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your letter of acceptance or transcript/school documentation for verification.)
 Yes
 No


4.
Is your current field of study in an educational curriculum related to the paralegal specialist position, such as law, legal studies, paralegal studies, or other similar field?
 Yes
 No


5.
What is your current cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA)? (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your letter of acceptance or most recent transcript/school documentation for verification.)
 4.0 or equivalent
 3.5-3.99 or equivalent
 3.0-3.49 or equivalent
 2.5-2.99 or equivalent
 2.0-2.49 or equivalent
 1.99 or below


Please read regarding the definition of Superior Academic Achievement: This provision applies to persons who have completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university as evidenced by one of three methods described below (within a curriculum that is qualifying for the position to be filled): 1) Class standing -- Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; or 2) Grade-point average (G.P.A.) -- Applicants must have a grade-point average of: a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on their official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum. Grade-point averages are to be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 will round to 3.0 and 2.94 will round to 2.9; or 3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society -- Applicants can be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastic honor societies.


6.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes your qualifications for the Student Trainee (Paralegal Specialist) position, GS-0999-7. The resume must support the response you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service performing legal research and reviewing and summarizing information in a prescribed format on case precedents and decisions.
 I have a bachelor's degee in any field with Superior Academic Achievement (SAA).
 I have one full year of graduate education that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 None of the above


7.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes your qualifications for the Student Trainee (Paralegal Specialist), GS-9. The resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at, or equivalent to, the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service performing legal research; reviewing and summarizing information in a prescribed form on case precedents and decisions; and preparing written analysis of legal questions containing well-supported conclusions and citations.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher-level graduate education, or LL.B or J.D. Such education demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position.
 I have a combination of graduate education and experience that meets 100% of the qualification requirements for this position. (Only graduate education in excess of the first full year may be used in this calculation).
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above. (Screen Out)


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙