Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-13041528-AR-26-107 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
8
10


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


2.
Are you an enlisted member in the grades of E1 - E6?
 Yes. I am in the military grades of E1 - E6.
 No. I am not in the military grades of E1 - E6.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA AIR NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-1172.


3.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions truthfully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications. Must be skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.
 Yes
 No


2.
WG-05: Do you possess 6 Months experience in the use of common hand tools in making repetitive mechanical repairs under close supervision. Experience that demonstrates the ability to perform the simpler and routine duties of the trade?
 Yes
 No


3.
WG-08: Do you possess 12 months experience or training in the use of common hand tools to make mechanical repairs. Experience removing and installing aircraft parts, components, and accessories with detailed guidance. Experience in following detailed instructions in making routine, reoccurring repairs and modifications to aircraft parts, subassemblies, and components, e.g., such as jacking and leveling aircraft, installing, and adjusting engines, landing gear assemblies, instrument panels, and flight control systems.
 Yes
 No


4.
WG-10: Do you posses at least 18 months experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting, and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification. Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow. Must have the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container.
 Yes
 No


5.
Describe your experience performing scheduled and preventive maintenance inspections on aircraft. 



5a.
In your response, please detail your experience with pre-/post-flight inspections, fuel contamination checks, oil sampling, and checking onboard emergency equipment. Specify the types of aircraft you have worked on.


6.
Detail your experience conducting functional checks on major aircraft subsystems.


6a.
Address your specific experience in checking and evaluating hydraulic, electrical, transmission, and power systems. Describe the tools or technical manuals you utilized to ensure these systems met airworthiness standards.


7.
Describe a time when you had to troubleshoot, diagnose, and perform unscheduled maintenance on an aircraft system.


7a.
Explain your diagnostic process (e.g., use of test equipment, visual checks, instruments), how you determined the extent of the repairs needed, and how you executed the replacement or adjustment of major components like engines, rotors, or transmissions.


8.
Describe your experience with aircraft launch, recovery, and servicing operations.


8a.
Detail your process for preparing an aircraft for flight, including performing pre-takeoff inspections for leaks (oil, fuel, hydraulic), checking tire and panel integrity, and servicing fluids (oil, fuel, de-icing, hydraulic).


9.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙