Position Title
Program Manager
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12928088-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Civilian Employees of the Command

Department of the Army regulations include several employment categories in the definition of 'Current Civilian Employees of the Command'. This eligibility is specific to the following categories of employees WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. You are eligible in this category if you fall into one of the following:

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1." Army employees can access their SF-50 at: MyBiz.

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA) WITHIN THE COMMAND.  If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Army Excepted Service VRA appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2.").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE DEFENSE CIVILIAN INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM (DCIPS) WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service and/or those eligible under the DCIPS interchange agreement. If you are eligible in either of these categories, you may be required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army DCIPS employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and, if applicable, (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE APPOINTMENT WITH THE CYBER EXCEPTED SERVICE WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army CES employment (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"2"), and (2) an SF-50 showing career/ career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A TEMPORARY OR TERM APPOINTMENT WITHIN THE COMMAND. This category ONLY includes those who have personal career or career-conditional status, earned with prior employment in the Competitive Service. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit two SF-50s: (1) an SF-50 showing current Army employment, and (2) an SF-50 showing career/career-conditional employment in the Competitive Service (block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

•  CURRENT FLEXIBLE LENGTH AND RENEWABLE TERM (FLRT) TECHNICAL APPOINTMENT EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE COMMAND. If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing a current Army Flexible Length Renewable Term Technical appointment with a remark indicating that you are eligible for consideration as a status candidate (block 45 must contain a remark on eligibility as a status candidate under section 1109(b)(1)(B) of the NDAA for FY 2016).

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit the documents which prove you are a current Department of the Army employee WITHIN THE COMMAND recruiting for this position in one of the categories described above; please refer to the job opportunity announcement for details on the Command(s) included. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of Defense, go to My Biz at https://compo.dcpds.cpms.osd.mil/.

Note: The "current Army employee" category does not include permanent Army National Guard employees in the competitive service.

Are you eligible to apply as a Current Civilian Employees of the Command recruiting for this position?

 Yes
 No


3.
Domestic Defense Industrial Base Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base Civilian Personnel Workforce Flexibilities

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?

Current or former Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) employee; and Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain DIB or MTRFB.

Current DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former DIB or MTRFB employees: Must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment, must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a Domestic Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities Base (MTRFB) agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s), must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3"AND block 34 must be a "1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your DIB or MTRFB eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will be) separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you have been (or will be) separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

ICTAP applicants must be well qualified for the position to receive consideration for special priority selection. Well-qualified is defined as meeting all of the minimum qualification standards and eligibility requirements as well as possessing skills that clearly exceed the minimum qualification requirements for the position.

*Note: Under competitive delegated examining, an ICTAP eligible will be considered well-qualified if they attain an eligibility rating of 90 or higher, not including points for veterans' preference.

Supporting documentation: Federal employees seeking ICTAP eligibility must submit proof that they meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330.704, by submitting a copy of the following documents with your completed application: A copy of your agency notice; AND,

A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal; AND,

A copy of your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.  Additional information regarding ICTAP eligibility can be found in the OPM Employee's Guide to Career Transition.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act

Are you eligible under this authority for appointment?
Current or former Land Management Agency employee (i.e. the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture; the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior; the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior; the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the Interior; the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior; or the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior); and
Who currently are or formerly were under time-limited competitive appointments at certain land management agencies.

Current land management agency appointees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years, and
must have performed at an acceptable level during each period of service.

Former land management agency employees:
must have initially been hired under competitive examining procedures to the time-limited appointment,
must have served under 1 or more time-limited appointments by a land management agency for a total period of more than 24 months without a break in service of 2 or more years,
must have performed at an acceptable level throughout the service period(s),
must apply for a position covered by these provisions within 2 years after their most recent date of separation, and
must have been separated, with respect to their most recent separation, for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable proof of your appointment eligibility by submitting a copy of your most recent SF-50 (block 24 must be a "0" or "3" AND block 34 must be a"1"), Notification of Personnel Action, documenting your Land Management eligibility for a competitive service appointment AND performance rating showing you have performed at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


6.
Military Spouses, under Executive Order (E.O.) 13473

You are eligible for this hiring category if you:

• Are a spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty for more than 180 days other than for training; OR

• Are a spouse of a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR

• Are the un-remarried widow or widower of a service member who was killed while performing active duty.

Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your eligibility for E.O. 13473 which may include:

• verification of the marriage to the service member (i.e., a marriage license or other legal documentation verifying marriage);

• verification of the member's 100 percent disability; and/or

• verification of the member's death while on active duty.

Additionally, you may need to submit a Standard Form-15 (SF-15), an Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference, and applicable supporting documents as noted on the form.

To obtain a copy of SF-15, go to http://www.opm.gov/forms/pdf_fill/SF15.pdf.

Are you eligible to apply as a Military Spouse under Executive Order 13473?
 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?


 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Spouse Preference (MSP) Eligible
 
I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor. I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

Supporting Documentation:  You must include a copy of the Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist along with the documents identified on the checklist to verify your eligibility for MSP, such as PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment and a copy of marriage certificate or license.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?


 Yes
 No


10.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible

I am currently on retained grade based on receiving a written RIF notification letter of a change to lower grade, or a notification letter of a classification downgrade dated within the last 2 years.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. 

NOTE:  By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not accepted permanent Federal employment at your retained grade, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation:  If you indicate "yes" for this statement, you must submit a copy of the Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as a RIF change-to-lower-grade notice, and an SF-50 reflecting your RIF change to lower grade. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?
 Yes
 No


11.

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act (VEOA) of 1998

This category includes veterans whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND:

• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet this eligibility); or

• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions.
 
"Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference.
Supporting documentation:
 You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:
• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR
• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR
• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.
• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment.

 ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation.

The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage.

You may request copies of your military personnel records online.

Additional Veterans' preference information
U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage
U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Program Manager position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Manager at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 grade level in the Federal service which includes: Managing civil construction project schedules, ensuring alignment with the Project Management Plan (PMP); administering civil works program budgets, ensuring proper fund allocation and expenditure tracking.; and leading a project team, ensuring timely task completion and adherence to project goals.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2

INSTRUCTIONS: You will now complete a Situational Judgement Test (SJT). This assessment presents realistic job-related scenarios. For each one, select the response that best reflects how you would handle the situation. Each question has four response options. These range from the most appropriate to the least appropriate action, but the options are presented in random order. Your task is to choose the option you believe is the best course of action in a federal workplace setting. There are no right or wrong answers. Your responses should reflect sound judgment and professional decision-making. This test evaluates how you approach workplace situations, not your prior experience or background. Please answer honestly and thoughtfully. Your responses will help determine your qualifications for this position.


1.
You are managing a $75 million flood control project with multiple interdependent phases. The design team reports they need an additional 3 weeks to complete environmental compliance reviews, which would delay the construction start date. The construction contractor warns that any delay beyond 2 weeks will push work into winter months, requiring costly weather protection measures and extending the project by 4 months. The customer is pressuring for on-time completion due to upcoming flood season concerns. How do you address this scheduling conflict?

 Override the environmental review requirements to maintain the original schedule, directing the design team to proceed immediately to construction documents, and assure the customer that the project will be completed on time without additional costs or delays.
 Direct the design team to complete environmental reviews within 2 weeks by adding overtime resources, while simultaneously preparing contingency plans for weather protection measures in case the compressed timeline cannot be met, and brief the customer on potential schedule risks.
 Convene an immediate meeting with design, construction, contracting, and environmental teams to explore parallel work options, assess risk tolerance for accelerated environmental review processes, and develop a modified schedule that balances compliance requirements with weather constraints while keeping the customer informed of trade-offs.
 Instruct the design team to proceed with construction documents while environmental reviews continue in parallel, accepting the risk of potential rework if environmental issues arise, and inform the customer that the original schedule will be maintained through this approach.
 Authorize the design team to proceed with the 3-week extension while negotiating with the construction contractor to implement weather protection measures, then present the customer with a revised timeline that includes additional costs but maintains project quality and compliance standards.


2.
During the development of a PMP for a $150 million navigation project, you discover that the original cost estimate from the feasibility study is 25% lower than current market conditions suggest. The engineering team wants to proceed with the original budget to avoid project delays, while the contracting office recommends updating all cost estimates before finalizing the PMP. The customer has already committed matching funds based on the original estimate. What is your approach to resolving this PMP development issue?

 Complete the PMP with the original budget while documenting the cost variance as a significant risk factor, establish enhanced cost monitoring procedures, and prepare contingency plans for addressing funding shortfalls while keeping all stakeholders informed of potential budget challenges.
 Halt PMP finalization to conduct a comprehensive cost analysis with current market data, engage the customer in discussions about funding implications, coordinate with headquarters on potential budget adjustments, and develop risk mitigation strategies with the project delivery team before proceeding with an updated PMP that reflects realistic project costs.
 Proceed with the original PMP budget while directing the engineering team to find cost savings during design development, assuming that value engineering and competitive bidding will address the cost variance without requiring formal budget adjustments or customer notification.
 Revise the project scope within the PMP to align with the original budget constraints, working with the engineering team to identify elements that can be deferred or modified, and present the customer with options for maintaining the project within the committed funding levels.
 Approve the PMP with the original budget and instruct all teams to absorb any cost overruns within their existing allocations, avoiding any communication with the customer about potential funding issues until construction contracts are awarded.


3.
During construction of a dam rehabilitation project, the contractor encounters unexpected foundation conditions that require design modifications. The original PMP specified a particular foundation treatment, but geotechnical investigations reveal the need for deeper excavation and additional stabilization measures. This change would add 6 weeks to the schedule and $3 million to the cost. The design team needs 2 weeks to develop modification plans, and the contractor has stopped work in the affected area. How do you manage this situation while maintaining PMP compliance?

 Direct the contractor to proceed with the original foundation design while the design team evaluates alternatives, implement additional monitoring and inspection procedures to manage technical risks, and prepare documentation for potential PMP modifications based on actual field performance.
 Authorize the design team to begin modification development while directing the contractor to implement temporary stabilization measures, document all changes for PMP revision approval, and coordinate with the customer and funding authorities about the schedule and cost implications of the technical changes.
 Order the contractor to proceed with the original foundation treatment as specified in the PMP, dismissing the geotechnical concerns as overly conservative, and direct all teams to maintain the original schedule and budget without any design modifications.
 Immediately convene a technical review team including geotechnical specialists, direct the contractor to continue work in unaffected areas, initiate formal design modification procedures through proper channels, assess PMP impact and funding requirements, and establish a communication plan to keep all stakeholders informed of the technical resolution process.
 Instruct the design team to find a solution within the original PMP parameters by modifying other project elements to accommodate the foundation issues, directing the contractor to resume work with enhanced quality control measures while avoiding formal design changes.


4.
You are overseeing a $250 million ecosystem restoration mega-project involving multiple federal agencies, state partners, and environmental stakeholders. Three months into construction, a new endangered species is discovered in the project area, requiring consultation with Fish and Wildlife Service. This could halt construction for 6-12 months while biological assessments are completed. The project has already obligated $45 million, and stopping work would trigger significant contractor claims. Environmental groups are demanding immediate work stoppage, while economic stakeholders want the project to continue. How do you manage this complex mega-project challenge?

 Suspend all construction activities pending biological assessment completion, engage legal counsel to minimize contractor claim exposure, coordinate with all agencies to expedite the consultation process, and work with stakeholders to develop alternative project phasing that could allow partial work continuation in non-sensitive areas.
 Proceed with construction under existing environmental permits while directing the environmental team to conduct additional species surveys, assume that the discovery may not significantly impact the project, and maintain the original schedule while preparing documentation for potential future consultations.
 Immediately implement a controlled work stoppage in sensitive areas while allowing continuation of work in unaffected zones, initiate emergency consultation procedures with Fish and Wildlife Service, convene a multi-agency coordination meeting to develop an expedited assessment process, and establish a stakeholder communication strategy to manage competing interests while protecting both the project investment and environmental compliance.
 Continue all construction activities as planned, arguing that the existing environmental permits cover all potential species impacts, dismiss the new discovery as not requiring additional consultation, and direct all teams to maintain the original project schedule and scope without any environmental modifications.
 Continue construction while implementing enhanced environmental monitoring protocols, initiate informal consultation with Fish and Wildlife Service to assess the situation, prepare contingency plans for potential work modifications, and engage stakeholders in discussions about balancing environmental protection with project continuity.


5.
You are preparing the annual civil works budget submission for your district, which includes 15 ongoing projects and 8 new project proposals totaling $180 million. Headquarters has just announced a 12% reduction in the preliminary funding target due to federal budget constraints. The deadline for submission is in 10 days, and you must prioritize projects while maintaining program effectiveness. Several high-visibility projects supported by congressional delegations are included in your portfolio. How do you approach this budget development challenge?

 Focus budget reductions on new project proposals while protecting ongoing projects from significant cuts, adjust project schedules to spread funding over multiple years where possible, and prepare the submission based on current project commitments and stakeholder expectations while noting funding constraints.
 Distribute the 12% reduction proportionally across all projects to avoid difficult prioritization decisions, maintain existing project scopes and schedules, and prepare the budget submission with the assumption that additional funding may become available during the appropriation process.
 Submit the original budget request without reductions, arguing that all projects are essential and cannot be cut, and assume that headquarters will find additional funding sources or that the budget constraints will be lifted before final appropriations are determined.
 Conduct a comprehensive project prioritization analysis with District Leadership Team using established criteria including public safety, economic benefits, and environmental impacts, engage project managers to identify scope modifications that could reduce costs while maintaining core objectives, coordinate with Major Subordinate Command (MSC) on priority guidance, and prepare multiple funding scenarios with clear justifications for recommended project rankings and potential deferrals.
 Review all projects against mission-critical criteria and congressional priorities, work with project teams to identify potential cost reductions through scope adjustments or phased implementation, prepare a prioritized submission that balances program effectiveness with political considerations, and document the rationale for all funding recommendations.


6.
During the third quarter of the fiscal year, you discover that three major projects in your portfolio are significantly under-obligating their allocated funds due to design delays, while two other projects are approaching their obligation limits ahead of schedule due to accelerated construction progress. The total variance is $8 million under-obligated and $3 million over-obligated. Headquarters requires monthly reports showing 95% obligation rates by year-end. How do you address this fund allocation and monitoring situation?

 Assume that the obligation variances will resolve naturally as projects progress, focus reporting efforts on overall portfolio performance rather than individual project variances, and wait until the fourth quarter to take corrective action if the problems persist.
 Immediately analyze the root causes of obligation variances, coordinate with project managers to develop realistic revised obligation schedules, initiate formal reprogramming procedures to reallocate funds between projects, implement enhanced monthly monitoring procedures, and provide headquarters with a comprehensive corrective action plan that addresses both under and over-obligation issues.
 Modify the obligation reports to headquarters to show target performance levels, direct over-obligating projects to continue spending as needed for project success, and assume that under-obligating projects will catch up without intervention or formal reprogramming actions.
 Work with under-obligating projects to accelerate their design processes and identify opportunities for early obligation, coordinate with over-obligating projects to implement spending controls, prepare reprogramming requests for fund transfers between projects, and establish weekly monitoring procedures to track progress toward obligation targets.
 Direct under-obligating projects to find immediate obligation opportunities such as advance material purchases or consultant contracts, implement strict spending controls on over-obligating projects, and adjust reporting to headquarters to reflect the most optimistic obligation projections while working to resolve the variances.


7.
You receive a financial report showing that a $45 million lock modernization project has exhausted 80% of its contingency funds due to unforeseen structural issues, while still in the design phase. The project is 18 months from construction start, and the remaining contingency may be insufficient for construction risks. A separate flood control project has completed design under budget and could transfer $2 million in unused funds. The customer is requesting assurance that the lock project will be completed within the authorized funding level. How do you evaluate this financial situation and support budgetary decision-making?

 Review the current contingency utilization against industry standards for similar projects, explore opportunities for scope modifications that could reduce costs, coordinate the fund transfer from the flood control project, and provide the customer with updated cost projections based on current information and remaining risks.
 Dismiss the contingency concerns as overly conservative, direct the project team to absorb any additional costs within the base budget, avoid any fund transfers that might complicate budget reporting, and guarantee the customer that the project will be completed on schedule and within the original budget.
 Conduct a comprehensive risk analysis of remaining project phases, evaluate the flood control project's fund transfer feasibility and regulatory requirements, assess the lock project's total funding needs through completion, coordinate with cost engineering specialists to validate contingency requirements, and prepare decision options for leadership that include risk mitigation strategies and potential additional funding needs.
 Analyze the structural issues' impact on total project costs, initiate formal reprogramming procedures to transfer available funds from the flood control project, conduct a detailed review of remaining contingency needs for construction, and prepare recommendations for leadership on project funding adequacy and risk management approaches.
 Accept the current contingency depletion as normal for complex projects, proceed with the fund transfer from the flood control project, assume that construction risks will be manageable within remaining funds, and assure the customer that the project will be completed within authorized funding levels.


8.
A $90 million coastal protection project is entering its final construction phase when the contractor submits a $4.5 million change order for additional armor stone due to more severe wave conditions than anticipated in the design. The project has $2.8 million remaining in contingency funds, and the design team confirms the change is necessary for project performance. The construction is 85% complete, and rejecting the change could compromise the entire project's effectiveness. Three other district projects have unused contingency funds totaling $3.2 million. How do you control and manage project funds to address this situation?

 Approve the use of available project contingency funds for the validated portion of the change order, initiate formal procedures to transfer unused contingency funds from other projects to cover the remaining amount, implement enhanced oversight for the change order execution, and document all fund management decisions for audit compliance.
 Authorize the full contingency fund utilization for the change order, work with the contractor to phase the additional work to spread costs across fiscal periods, explore value engineering options to reduce the total change order cost, and prepare justification for any additional funding requirements.
 Approve the change order using available contingency funds and direct the contractor to absorb any costs exceeding the available contingency through efficiency improvements, assume that the project can be completed successfully with minor performance compromises if full funding is not available.
 Validate the technical necessity and cost reasonableness of the change order through independent review, assess the regulatory and procedural requirements for accessing contingency funds from other projects, coordinate with the vertical team on fund transfer authorities, evaluate alternative solutions that might reduce costs, and develop a funding strategy that ensures project completion while maintaining proper fiscal controls.
 Reject the change order to preserve remaining contingency funds, direct the contractor to complete the project according to original specifications regardless of wave conditions, and assume that any performance issues can be addressed through future maintenance activities.


9.
Your multidisciplinary team of 25 employees across engineering, environmental, and project management functions is struggling to meet deadlines on multiple concurrent projects. Two subordinate supervisors report that their teams are overwhelmed, with several key employees considering transfers to other districts. Workload analysis shows a 30% increase in project complexity over the past year, but staffing has remained constant. Upper management is pressuring for improved performance metrics while maintaining current resource levels. How do you plan and direct your team's work to address these challenges?

 Maintain current work assignments and schedules, assume that employee concerns about workload are temporary, direct subordinate supervisors to discourage transfer requests, and assure upper management that performance metrics will improve without any operational changes.
 Work with subordinate supervisors to redistribute workload more evenly across teams, implement process improvements to increase efficiency, establish clear priority guidelines for project work, create professional development opportunities to improve job satisfaction, and negotiate realistic performance targets with upper management based on current capacity.
 Direct subordinate supervisors to manage their teams more efficiently within current constraints, implement stricter performance monitoring to identify underperforming employees, assume that team members will adapt to increased workload demands, and focus on meeting upper management's performance expectations.
 Conduct a comprehensive workload analysis with subordinate supervisors to identify critical bottlenecks, establish priority-based project scheduling that aligns with organizational goals, develop retention strategies for key employees, and prepare a data-driven case for leadership, align to establish priorities regarding resource needs and performance expectations.
 Focus on immediate deadline management by temporarily reassigning staff from lower-priority projects, implement overtime authorization for critical work, streamline approval processes to reduce delays, and work with subordinate supervisors to identify quick wins that can improve performance metrics.


10.
During annual performance evaluations, you discover that one of your subordinate supervisors has been consistently rating all employees as "exceeds expectations" despite clear performance issues in their division. Three employees under this supervisor have received customer complaints, missed critical deadlines, and failed to meet technical standards. The supervisor argues that their team faces unique challenges and that the ratings reflect effort rather than results. You need to address this situation while maintaining supervisory relationships and ensuring fair performance management. How do you handle this supervisory performance management issue?

 Direct the subordinate supervisor to revise the performance evaluations to reflect actual performance levels, provide guidance on documenting performance issues and setting appropriate standards, establish more frequent check-ins to monitor supervisory effectiveness, and ensure that future evaluations are properly supported by performance data.
 Support the subordinate supervisor's evaluation approach to maintain team morale, assume that customer complaints and missed deadlines are due to external factors, and avoid making changes to the performance evaluations that might create conflict within the supervisory structure.
 Meet privately with the subordinate supervisor to review specific performance documentation and establish clear evaluation criteria based on measurable outcomes, require revision of the performance evaluations with proper justification, provide training on effective performance management techniques, implement regular review meetings to ensure consistent application of standards, and document all supervisory guidance for accountability.
 Conduct a thorough review of the division's performance data with the subordinate supervisor, establish specific performance improvement plans for underperforming employees, require the supervisor to provide detailed justification for all ratings, and implement additional oversight of the evaluation process while providing coaching on supervisory responsibilities.
 Accept the supervisor's explanation about unique challenges but require additional documentation for future evaluations, assume that the performance issues will resolve with time, focus on coaching the supervisor about evaluation standards while allowing the current ratings to stand.


11.
Your engineering team is implementing new design software that promises to improve efficiency but requires significant learning curve investment. Half of your senior engineers are resistant to the change, preferring familiar methods, while newer employees are eager to adopt the technology. Project deadlines are approaching, and the transition is causing temporary productivity decreases. Some senior staff members are influencing others to avoid using the new software. How do you provide guidance and motivation to successfully implement this change while maintaining team performance?

 Implement a structured training program with dedicated time for skill development, pair resistant senior engineers with technology-proficient colleagues for peer learning, establish clear expectations for software adoption timelines, provide additional support for those struggling with the transition, and adjust project schedules to account for the temporary productivity impact.
 Allow senior engineers to continue using familiar methods to avoid conflict, limit new software use to newer employees only, assume that the productivity benefits are not worth the disruption, and abandon the software implementation to maintain current team dynamics and project schedules.
 Focus training efforts on the most influential senior engineers to create champions for the new software, provide intensive technical support during the transition period, establish incentives for early adoption, and allow flexible use of both old and new methods during the transition while gradually increasing new software requirements.
 Develop a comprehensive change management strategy that includes phased implementation, peer mentoring between new and senior employees, hands-on training sessions led by early adopters, clear communication about long-term benefits, recognition programs for successful adoption, and temporary workflow adjustments to accommodate the learning curve while maintaining project commitments.
 Mandate immediate adoption of the new software for all projects, provide basic training sessions, assume that senior engineers will adapt quickly once they see the benefits, and maintain original project deadlines while expecting staff to learn the software on their own time.


12.
A congressional delegation is visiting your district to review a $120 million flood risk management project that has experienced cost increases and schedule delays. The delegation includes the project's primary sponsor who has been receiving constituent complaints about the delays. During the briefing, the congressman directly questions you about whether the project will be completed within the authorized funding and timeline. You know that current projections show a potential 15% cost overrun and 8-month delay, but final determinations are still being analyzed. How do you serve as the authoritative point of contact in this high-stakes communication situation?

 Emphasize the project's importance and progress while downplaying the significance of cost and schedule variances, suggest that the issues are likely temporary and manageable, provide optimistic projections based on best-case scenarios, and assure the delegation that the project will be completed successfully.
 Provide a transparent briefing on current project status including known challenges, present the preliminary cost and schedule analysis with appropriate caveats about ongoing evaluation, explain the specific factors contributing to the variances, outline the steps being taken to validate projections and explore mitigation options, and commit to providing updated information within a specific timeframe once analysis is complete.
 Focus the briefing on project accomplishments and benefits while noting that some challenges have emerged, provide general information about cost and schedule pressures without specific numbers, emphasize the team's commitment to project success, and indicate that detailed projections will be available after further analysis.
 Deny any significant cost or schedule problems, attribute any delays to external factors beyond the district's control, provide assurances that the project will be completed within original parameters, and avoid discussing any analysis that might suggest cost overruns or delays.
 Acknowledge the cost and schedule concerns while emphasizing the project's critical importance for flood protection, present the range of potential outcomes based on current analysis, explain the technical and external factors contributing to the challenges, and assure the delegation that all options are being explored to minimize impacts to cost and schedule.


13.
You are attending a multi-agency coordination meeting for a $200 million ecosystem restoration project involving EPA, Fish and Wildlife Service, state environmental agencies, and local stakeholders. Tensions are high because the state agency wants to accelerate the timeline to meet political commitments, EPA is concerned about rushing environmental compliance, and local stakeholders are worried about construction impacts on their communities. Each agency has different regulatory requirements and priorities. How do you represent your organization while facilitating coordination and issue resolution?

 Insist that your organization's project plan cannot be modified to accommodate other agencies' concerns, argue that environmental compliance requirements are unnecessarily restrictive, dismiss local stakeholder concerns as outside the scope of federal decision-making, and demand that all other parties adapt to your organization's timeline and approach.
 Focus on explaining your organization's regulatory obligations and project requirements, listen to other agencies' concerns and document areas of disagreement, suggest that technical staff from each agency meet separately to work out details, and propose that each agency provide written positions for further consideration.
 Emphasize your organization's authority and experience in managing similar projects, suggest that other agencies should defer to your established procedures, propose that the original project plan be maintained with minor accommodations for other agencies' concerns, and assume that coordination issues will resolve as the project progresses.
 Present your organization's position clearly while acknowledging all stakeholder concerns, facilitate discussion to identify common objectives and potential compromise solutions, propose a structured approach to address each agency's requirements systematically, suggest establishing working groups to resolve specific technical issues, and offer to coordinate follow-up meetings with clear action items and timelines for resolution.
 Advocate for your organization's project approach while demonstrating understanding of other agencies' constraints, work to identify areas where requirements can be streamlined without compromising compliance, propose phased implementation options that could address timing concerns, and volunteer to lead coordination efforts between meetings to maintain momentum.


14.
You are scheduled to brief the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works on your district's $300 million annual program during their upcoming visit. Two days before the briefing, you learn that a high-profile levee project has experienced significant cost overruns due to unforeseen soil conditions, potentially requiring an additional $12 million in funding. The project is in a politically sensitive area, and local media has been critical of federal spending. Your supervisor suggests focusing the briefing on successful projects and avoiding discussion of the cost overruns. How do you prepare for this critical communication with senior leadership?

 Prepare a comprehensive briefing that includes both program successes and challenges, present the levee project cost overruns with full context about the unforeseen conditions and mitigation measures being implemented, provide clear options and recommendations for addressing the funding shortfall, and ensure the Assistant Secretary has complete information for informed decision-making about the district's program.
 Emphasize the district's overall program success and positive outcomes while minimizing discussion of any project difficulties, suggest that the levee project issues are manageable within normal program operations, and assume that detailed cost information is not necessary for this high-level briefing.
 Develop a balanced presentation that highlights program achievements while also addressing the levee project challenges, explain the technical factors that led to the cost overruns and the steps being taken to prevent similar issues on other projects, and provide the Assistant Secretary with a realistic assessment of district program status and funding needs.
 Follow your supervisor's guidance to focus only on successful projects, avoid any mention of the levee project cost overruns to prevent negative attention, assume that the Assistant Secretary does not need to know about individual project challenges, and present an entirely positive view of the district's program performance.
 Focus the briefing primarily on successful projects and program achievements while briefly mentioning that some projects face technical challenges, provide general information about cost pressures without specific details about the levee project, and indicate that detailed project-specific information is available if requested.


15.
You are managing a complex $85 million levee reconstruction project that involves coordination with multiple local communities. During construction, archaeological artifacts are discovered that require evaluation by the State Historic Preservation Office. This discovery could delay construction for 3-4 months while assessments are completed. The contractor is requesting compensation for the delay, and local communities are concerned about flood protection during the upcoming storm season. How do you manage this project challenge while maintaining stakeholder relationships?

 Direct the contractor to work around the archaeological site while assessments continue, assume that the artifacts are not significant enough to require major project modifications, and assure local communities that flood protection will not be compromised.
 Instruct the contractor to continue construction as planned, arguing that the project's flood protection mission takes precedence over archaeological concerns, and avoid notifying regulatory authorities about the discovery to prevent delays.
 Immediately halt construction in the affected area, coordinate with the State Historic Preservation Office to expedite the assessment process, engage local communities in discussions about temporary flood protection measures, and work with the contractor to minimize delay impacts through schedule adjustments in other project areas.
 Implement a controlled work stoppage in the archaeological area while allowing construction to continue in unaffected zones, initiate emergency consultation with preservation authorities, develop a comprehensive stakeholder communication plan, coordinate temporary flood protection measures with local emergency management, and establish a multi-party working group to expedite resolution while protecting both cultural resources and public safety.
 Suspend all construction activities pending archaeological assessment completion, notify all stakeholders of the delay, explore options for temporary flood protection measures, and prepare documentation for potential project modifications based on the assessment results.


16.
Your district receives notification that a major flood control project's federal funding will be reduced by 30% due to congressional budget cuts. The project is 40% complete, with $60 million already obligated and $40 million remaining. Local sponsors have invested $25 million in matching funds and are threatening legal action if the project is not completed as originally planned. How do you address this critical funding challenge?

 Negotiate with local sponsors to increase their cost-share percentage to make up for the federal funding reduction, modify the project scope to fit within available funding, and prepare a revised project schedule that maintains core flood protection objectives.
 Conduct a comprehensive analysis of project alternatives including scope modifications, phased implementation options, and alternative funding sources, engage all stakeholders in discussions about viable solutions, coordinate with headquarters on potential supplemental funding opportunities, and develop multiple scenarios with clear cost-benefit analyses for decision-makers.
 Continue the project as originally planned, assuming that additional federal funding will become available, direct all teams to maintain the current scope and schedule, and avoid communicating the funding reduction to local sponsors until absolutely necessary.
 Work with local sponsors to explore alternative funding mechanisms including state appropriations and private partnerships, develop a phased implementation plan that prioritizes the most critical flood protection elements, and coordinate with legal counsel to address potential contractual issues while maintaining stakeholder relationships.
 Reduce the project scope proportionally to match the available funding, inform local sponsors that the project will be completed with reduced capabilities, and assume that the modified project will still provide adequate flood protection for the community.


17.
You discover that a key project manager in your organization has been consistently missing important deadlines and making technical errors that require costly corrections. This employee has 15 years of experience and was previously a strong performer, but their performance has declined significantly over the past year. Other team members are expressing frustration, and project quality is being affected. How do you address this performance management challenge?

 Meet privately with the employee to discuss the performance issues, explore potential underlying causes such as personal or health problems, develop a performance improvement plan with specific goals and timelines, provide additional training and support resources, and establish regular check-ins to monitor progress.
 Reassign the employee to less critical projects to minimize the impact of their performance issues, assume that the problems are temporary and will resolve themselves, and avoid formal documentation to maintain the employee's morale and job security.
 Conduct a comprehensive performance assessment including input from colleagues and customers, meet with the employee to discuss specific performance concerns with documented examples, explore all potential contributing factors including training needs and personal circumstances, develop a detailed improvement plan with measurable objectives and support resources, coordinate with HR on proper documentation procedures, and establish a structured monitoring and feedback process.
 Ignore the performance issues to avoid conflict, assume that the employee's experience will eventually overcome current problems, and focus on managing around their limitations rather than addressing them directly.
 Document the performance issues and begin progressive disciplinary action, provide the employee with clear expectations for improvement, establish a 90-day improvement period, and prepare for potential termination if performance does not improve.


18.
During a high-profile project review meeting with senior leadership from multiple agencies, you discover that critical project data in your presentation contains significant errors that overstate the project's benefits and understate its costs. The meeting is already underway, and several key decisions are being made based on this information. How do you handle this communication crisis?

 Immediately interrupt the presentation to acknowledge the data errors, provide a clear explanation of the mistakes and their implications, present the correct information to the extent possible, recommend postponing key decisions until accurate data can be provided, and commit to delivering corrected analysis within a specific timeframe.
 Continue with the presentation as planned to avoid embarrassment, assume that the errors are minor and will not significantly impact decision-making, and plan to provide corrections through follow-up communications after the meeting.
 Acknowledge that some data requires verification, provide general caveats about the preliminary nature of the analysis, suggest that final decisions should await additional review, and offer to provide updated information after further analysis.
 Mention that the data is subject to ongoing review and refinement, downplay the significance of any potential errors, continue with the presentation while noting areas of uncertainty, and assume that decision-makers will account for data limitations.
 Stop the presentation to address the data concerns, explain the nature of the errors and their potential impact on conclusions, provide the best available corrected information, and recommend that critical decisions be deferred until comprehensive accurate analysis can be completed.


19.
You are overseeing a $110 million port modernization project when a major design flaw is discovered that affects the structural integrity of the new wharf system. The flaw was not caught during the design review process and would require significant redesign and reconstruction of work already completed. Fixing the problem would add $15 million to the cost and 8 months to the schedule. The port authority is under pressure to complete the project for a major shipping contract. How do you manage this critical project issue?

 Minimize the significance of the design flaw, direct the contractor to proceed with construction using enhanced quality control measures, and assume that the structural issues can be addressed through future maintenance and monitoring.
 Implement temporary structural reinforcements to address immediate safety concerns, initiate a comprehensive design review to develop permanent solutions, coordinate with the port authority on schedule implications, and explore options for phased implementation that could minimize operational impacts.
 Immediately halt all construction activities in affected areas, convene an independent technical review board to assess the design flaw and develop solutions, initiate formal design modification procedures, conduct a comprehensive cost and schedule impact analysis, engage all stakeholders in discussions about project alternatives, and establish a communication plan to manage customer and public expectations.
 Continue construction in unaffected areas while the design team develops solutions for the structural issues, assume that engineering modifications can be implemented without major cost or schedule impacts, and maintain the original project completion target.
 Suspend construction in the affected areas pending design resolution, engage structural engineering specialists to develop corrective measures, coordinate with the port authority and contractors on revised project timelines, and prepare comprehensive documentation for project modification approvals.


20.
During budget execution, you discover that inflation and supply chain disruptions have increased material costs by 25% across your project portfolio. This affects 8 major projects with a combined value of $200 million. Current project contingencies are insufficient to absorb these cost increases, and contractors are submitting change orders. Headquarters is emphasizing the importance of staying within approved budgets. How do you address this district-wide budget challenge?

 Direct all project managers to negotiate with contractors to absorb the cost increases within existing contract values, assume that competitive market pressures will help control costs, and maintain original project budgets and scopes.
 Analyze the cost impacts across all affected projects, prioritize projects based on mission criticality and stakeholder commitments, develop options for scope modifications that could reduce costs while maintaining core objectives, and coordinate with headquarters on potential budget adjustments and reprogramming opportunities.
 Conduct a comprehensive district-wide cost analysis to quantify total impact, engage with contractors and suppliers to explore cost mitigation strategies, develop multiple budget scenarios including scope modifications and schedule adjustments, coordinate with headquarters on emergency funding procedures, assess opportunities for inter-project fund transfers, and prepare a comprehensive briefing for senior leadership on recommended actions and their implications.
 Continue all projects as originally planned, assume that cost increases are temporary and will stabilize, direct project teams to absorb cost overruns within existing allocations, and avoid reporting the budget pressures to headquarters until contract modifications are unavoidable.
 Implement immediate cost control measures including value engineering reviews and scope reductions, negotiate with contractors for cost-sharing arrangements, explore opportunities to defer non-critical project elements, and prepare budget modification requests for the most severely affected projects.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙