Position Title
SURFACE MAINTENANCE MECHANIC INSPECTOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12853438-AR-26-328 Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Dec 30, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position requirements, education and experience (general and specialized) needed. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with duties currently assigned at the MTMA of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with duties currently assigned at the MTMA of the Montana Army National Guard.
 I am currently a Traditional military member (Drill, ADSW, etc.) of the Montana Army National Guard, a BARGAINING UNIT Indefinite (Tenure 3) or an NTE (Tenure 0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee or a NON-BARGAINING UNIT (of any Tenure – 1/2/3/0) T32 or T5 MT Army NG employee; T5 applicants must be eligible for MT Army National Guard military membership and willing to join, if not currently a military member.
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join.
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.
 I am currently a Permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) BARGAINING UNIT employee with duties NOT currently assigned at the MTMA of the Montana Army National Guard.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training which demonstrates knowledge of equipment to be able to do routine jobs, simple preventative maintenance tasks, and is able to use common tools and equipment in the line of work.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training leading to an extensive knowledge of the mechanical makeup, operation, and working relationships of complex interconnecting systems, assemblies, and parts for a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Ability to diagnose, repair, overhaul, and modify interconnected complex systems on a variety of combat, tactical, commercial, special purpose vehicles, and equipment. Extensive knowledge of state of the art electrical, electronic, complex hydraulic, pneumatic, and other major non-mechanical systems that have a functional relationship and effect on the operation of major mechanical systems. Extensive knowledge of hydraulic lifting, loading, turning, and positioning systems and their mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, electrical, and electronic controls. Skill and knowledge to develop or improvise methods, alter parts, and make repairs in the absence of technical guidelines (such as modifying parts to fit and mesh into systems for which the parts were not designed); improvise modifications to equipment to correct recurring malfunctions; and design modifications to meet special test requirements or other special needs.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E5 - E9; WO1 - CW3)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙