Position Title
Child and Youth Program Assistant May be eligible for 1000.00 Incentive at 6 mo. and 1 year
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12992928 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Assistant - Entry. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a 4-year degree or higher in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development or a related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (human development emphasis), or a degree in other fields as appropriate.
 I have a 2-year degree in ECE, Child Development or a related field of study, which can include Youth Recreation, Physical Education, Elementary Education, Secondary Education, Youth Development, Psychology, Social Work, Home Economics (human development emphasis), or a degree in other fields as appropriate.
 I have a Child Development Associate (CDA) credential or Military School-Age (MSA) credential.
 I have a certificate of completion for the DoD-approved competency-based training courses.
 I have a certificate of completion for the child abuse courses and the DoD-approved competency-based training courses related to Positive Guidance, Safe Environments, and Healthy Environments.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many months of experience do you have in caring for children/youth in a group setting, helping them develop social skills, such as making friends; make healthy choices; build self-help and school readiness skills; and explore the environment around them?
 I have 6+ months of experience in caring for children/youth in a group setting, as described above.
 I have 3 to 6 months of experience in caring for children/youth in a group setting, as described above..
 I have less than 3 months of experience in caring for children/youth in a group setting, as described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙