Position Title
Nursing Assistant (Various Specialties)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-12955312-26-RCa Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Nursing Assistant position with VA Long Beach Healthcare System. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Nursing Assistants appointed to direct patient care positions must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d) and 7407(d). Are you proficient in written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
To qualify at the GS-3 level do you possess at least one year education above high school with courses related to the Nursing Assistant occupation or completed an intensive, specialized, occupation-related course of study of less than one year as a nursing assistant, which may also meet in full the experience requirement.

 Yes
 No


Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


3.
To qualify at the GS-4 level do you possess one of the following:

 I have at least one year of specialized experience as a Nursing Assistant or experience in another medical field (licensed practical nurse, health technician, hospital corpsman, etc.), performing technical and nursing skills requiring knowledge of the human physical and emotional states, therapeutic communication, and technical skills required for basic and intermediate treatments. I can demonstrate that I meet the following: ? Ability to provide a range of patient/resident care and contribute to the completion of the nurse care plan and recovery of patients/residents. ? Ability to observe patients/residents or residents physical or emotional status and refer deviations and/or problems to supervisor in a timely manner. ? Ability to properly use equipment, materials and supplies in simple diagnostic and treatment procedures such as bladder scan, continuous passive motion device, blood glucose monitoring machine, specimen collection, etc. ? Ability to communicate effectively with patients/residents, their families and other health professionals.
 I have successfully completed two (2) years above high school in an accredited institution with courses related to nursing care, health care or in a field of study appropriate to the specialization of the position, such as education in a program for psychology, psychiatric, or operating room technicians.
 None of the above.


4.
To qualify at the GS-5 level do you possess one of the following:

 I have at least one (1) year of progressively responsible assignments and experience equivalent to the GS-4 level which demonstrates the below knowledge, skills, and abilities that are directly related to the specific assignment. ? Ability to assist in the full range of nursing care to patients/residents with physical and/or behavioral problems in a hospital, long term care or outpatient setting under the direction of a Registered Nurse and/or Licensed Vocational Nurse/Licensed Practical Nurse. ? Ability to communicate orally with patients/residents, families, interdisciplinary team and other personnel. This includes serving as a preceptor to new NAs by assisting with the coordination of their orientation and overseeing/assessing their practical experience while in a clinical setting. ? Ability to recognize and react to emergent patient/resident care situations and intervene while waiting for assistance. For example, recognizing need for basic life support, controlling bleeding and assisting with behavior crisis, etc.
 I have successfully completed a 4-year course above high school leading to a bachelor's degree that included 24 semester hours of courses related to health care or possession of a bachelor's degree.
 None of the above.


5.
To qualify as a Nursing Assistant, you must have completed at least 1 year above high school with courses related to the Nursing Assistant occupation OR completed an occupation-related course of study less than one year as nursing assistant. In the text box below, please list your qualifying education. EX: Central New Mexico College, Certified Nursing Assistant, 5/2016.



REMINDER: Please submit a copy of your transcript if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education.


Please select only the unit(s) you are specifically interested in and would like to be considered for. For example, if you are interested in Acute Care- Medicine Department then please check the yes box #8 Acute Care - Inpatient Medicine Department.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
Inpatient Geriatric Mental Health - provides complex nursing care independently as a member of the nursing care team by assisting other NAs, licensed nursing staff, and other members of the care team. The NA assists with the care of patients/residents receiving inpatient Mental Health care at the VA Long Beach Healthcare System.

 Yes
 No


7.
Imaging Healthcare Group (HCG) role is vital to the operational efficiency and safety of the radiology department. The Nursing Assistant provides essential support across multiple modalities to include CT, MRI, Interventional Radiology (IR) & Nuclear Medicine and assistance is critical during nights and weekends when staffing is limited and patient volumes remain steady.

 Yes
 No


8.
Acute Care- Inpatient Medicine: Nursing assistants in the acute care hospital setting support the nursing team by providing direct, hands-on patient care and helping to maintain a safe, clean environment. They play a key role in assisting patients with activities of daily living (ADLs), promoting mobility, and supporting patient comfort and safety, all under the direction of licensed nursing staff. The primary patient population on the Acute Care Units consists of adult and geriatric patients with acute medical needs.

 Yes
 No


9.
Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) - The Spinal Cord Injury/Disorders Acute Inpatient Unit is a Rehabilitation and Medical Surgical Specialty unit. Our team strives to improve the quality of life of Veterans living with SCI and SCI related disorders through the delivery of high-quality healthcare and the promotion of whole health and wellness. SCI or rehabilitation nursing experience is recommended but not required.

 Yes
 No


10.
Community Living Center (CLC) - Observes patient, with each interaction, for discomfort or distress. Reports verbally any life-threatening observation immediately to the LVN, RN and/or other practitioner and begins appropriate action as needed. For non-life-threatening events, it takes appropriate action and reports as soon as possible but no later than end of shift. Performs or assist patients with activities of daily living as assigned and/or needed with their tour. Reinforces patient and/or family teaching as directed by the RN or other healthcare professionals.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙