Position Title
AUDITOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NM-13059080-AR-T5-026-015 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current National Guard member within the state for which this position is being advertised?
 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technicians: I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the "Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 Yes
 No


5.
Priority Placement Program DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement: I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity. I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area. I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation.

NOTE 1: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the "Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist" and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability.

NOTE 2: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


Assessment 1
1.
Do you possess ONE of the following:

A. Degree: Accounting, auditing; or a degree including auditing courses in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration that included or was supplemented by 24 semester hours in accounting. The 24 hours may include up to 6 hours of credit in business law.

OR

B. Combination of education and experience: At least 4 years of experience in Performance Auditing, or an equivalent combination of performance auditing experience, college-level education, and training that provided professional auditing knowledge. The applicant's background must also include one of the following:

1. Twenty-four semester hours in accounting or auditing courses of appropriate type and quality. This can include up to 6 hours of business law; or

2. A certificate as Certified Public Accountant or a Certified Internal Auditor, obtained through written examination

 I possess "A"
 I possess "B"
 I possess BOTH "A" and "B"
 I possess neither "A" or "B"


For each technical area below, select the response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and demonstrated capability.


2.
Skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


3.
Skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material.
 I have no knowledge or demonstrated capability in this technical area.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of the fundamental concepts involved in this technical area. I will require formal training and close supervision to perform this work.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of some advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of working on most projects in this technical area with moderate assistance. I am able to perform this work with minimal supervision.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of many advanced concepts within this technical area and am capable of mentoring others on some projects in this technical area. I am able to perform this work without supervision except in the most complex situations.
 I can demonstrate an understanding of most advanced concepts within this technical area. I am considered an expert in the field and am frequently consulted by others about this technical area. I am responsible for mentoring and training others in this technical area.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


4.
Ability to comprehend and/or apply problem solving and negotiating techniques.
 I do not have experience or demonstrated capability in performing this activity, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this activity. I have had exposure to this activity but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a satisfactory level.
 I have a fair amount of experience and a fair amount of demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity satisfactorily but could benefit from additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform this activity more effectively.
 I have considerable experience and considerable demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I can perform this activity independently and effectively.
 I have extensive experience and extensive demonstrated capability in performing this activity. I am considered an expert; I am able to train or assist others; and my work is typically not reviewed by a supervisor. I have received verbal and/or written recognition from others in carrying out this activity.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


5.
Knowledge of generally accepted auditing standards and procedures for conducting financial and compliance, economy and efficiency, and program audits.
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙