Position Title
Material Handler
Agency
Bureau of the Fiscal Service
Announcement Number
26-FS-12996707-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


5.
When The Bureau of Fiscal Service completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
 Choose the statement that best describes the supervision received while you perform your work.
 I have experience working in a warehouse without direct supervision - receiving, issuing, and storing supplies and equipment, making frequent changes to accommodate changing work requirements and priorities, receiving only general instructions on new work, and reporting only unique situations to the supervisor.
 I have experience working in a warehouse without more than normal supervision - receiving, issuing, and storing supplies and equipment, performing recurring tasks with occasional spot-checks, and referring all unusual situations to a supervisor.
 I have experience working in a warehouse, or a similar setting, without more than normal supervision - receiving, issuing, and storing supplies and equipment, seeking supervisor assistance on occasion, and with my work being routinely checked by a supervisor.
 I have experience working in a warehouse, or a similar setting, given specific assigned duties and under close or constant direction of a supervisor.
 I do not have experience working in a warehouse, or a similar setting.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume by indicating place of employment and job title.


3.
Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience planning, storing, and organizing materials in a warehouse or a similar setting.
 I have worked with a manager or team to renovate a storage facility, including determining processes for loading and unloading, developing space utilizations plans, and implementing the movement of materials from docks, bins, or storage for shipping.
 I have planned, modified, and rearranged storage space for the placement of materials in a warehouse, or similar setting.
 I have maintained orderliness of storage areas straightening and rearranging as needed.
 I have notified a supervisor of any obvious deterioration or need for relocating items.
 I have not planned or organized the placement of materials in a warehouse, or similar setting.


4.
Please select the response that best describes your highest level of experience issuing, delivering, or recording inventory.
 I have utilized automated or mechanized equipment using computer functions to verify inventory levels, fill orders, place stock, and development tracking documentation for accountability purposes.
 I have utilized an automated inventory system to issue, deliver, and record inventory in a warehouse.
 I have utilized a manual inventory system to issue, deliver, and record inventory in a warehouse.
 I have located and issued items by comparing identifying information on documents with stock tags, bay markings, or box markings.
 I do not have experience as described in any of the above.


5.
In a warehouse environment, there are established priorities and deadlines when issuing and delivering stock. Please select all of the following choices that reflect your experience meeting priorities and deadlines.
 A. I have prioritized the disposition of standing order supplies from customers.
 B. I have prioritized and scheduled delivery of materials/stock as needed.
 C. I have expedited and recorded the delivery of priority materials/stock that may require special handling.
 D. I have expedited and recorded the issuance and delivery of critical items required for emergency situations to meet inventory needs.
 E. I do not have experience as described in any of the above.


6.
 In a warehouse environment, or a similar setting, there are established priorities and deadlines when issuing and delivering stock. Please select all of the following choices that reflect your experience meeting priorities and deadlines.
 A. Promptly receiving, recording, and issuing materials with expiration dates.
 B. Determining the delivery order of requested materials.
 C. Receiving written confirmation from customer upon delivery of product.
 D. I do not have experience as described in any of the above.


7.
Choose all of the following that describe your experience related to the operation and maintenance of a forklift.
 A. I have performed routine maintenance on a forklift.
 B. I have operated a forklift to move, palletize, and stack items in a warehouse.
 C. I have experience operating a sit-down forklift.
 D. I have experience operating a stand-up forklift.
 E. I do not have experience as described in any of the above.


8.
Choose all of the following that describe your experience related to the operation and maintenance of a forklift.
 A. I have maneuvered a forklift around tight places when delivering products to designated spaces.
 B. I have operated a forklift to load and unload materials in and about a warehouse, a loading dock, and on/off a vehicle.
 C. I am currently a licensed forklift operator.
 D. I have not operated or maintained a forklift.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙