Position Title
Club Operations Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
FFR26-0428 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in Department of the Navy Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the minimum requirement for the position. Failure to respond may result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have 1 year of general experience- progressively responsible clerical, office, or other work that indicates ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position OR 2 years of education above High School?
 Yes
 No


2.
How many years of experience do you have in dealing with customer service operations?
 Over 5 years
 3-5 years
 1-3 years
 None of the above


3.
How many years of experience do you have in cash handling?
 Over 5 years
 3-5 years
 1-3 years
 None of the above


4.
How many years of experience do you have in knowledge of DOD and Navy club policies, regulations, administrative practices and procedures.
 Over 5 years
 3-5 years
 1-3 years
 None of the above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙