Position Title
Biological Science Technician-FUL
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
MW-1543-EFMO26-13029490-FUL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Questions
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


Qualification Statement
Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


FUL
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): Effigy Mounds National Monument, 151 IA-76, Harpers Ferry, IA 52146

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 New Response
 New Response


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.


INSTRUCTIONS: From the descriptions below, select the response(s) that best describes how your background meets the requirements for the position. Read all responses before making your selection. You are required to answer every question in the questionnaire. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM IN THE QUESTIONNAIRE IN ORDER TO BE FOUND QUALIFIED AND CONSIDERED FOR THE POSITION.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one statement that best describes your education and/or experience in meeting the Minimum Qualification requirement for this position.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience comparable to the GS-6 level or higher in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience includes: 1) carrying out field studies on plants and plant ecology 2) inventorying and monitoring exotic plants 3) Research, conservation, and management of wildlife - e.g. birds, bats, other mammals 4) Conducting insect and insect habitat surveys.
 I have successfully completed One (1) full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours or equivalent) in a discipline that is directly related to this position, such as biology or wildlife management.
 I possess a combination of specialized experience as described above and graduate-level education that is directly related to the position, that when prorated, combine to meet the qualification requirements of this position. Experience and education are each computed as percentages of their requirements and must equal at least 100 percent when combined.
 I do not possess the education and/or experience outlined above.


INSTRUCTIONS: Certification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙