Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
CRR-26-KJ-12926939 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Time-In-Grade: This position has a time-in-grade (TIG) requirement to qualify at the GS-15. For the GS-15 grade level, you must have completed at least 52 weeks at the next lower grade, GS-14. Please select the one response that supports the grade level TIG requirements you meet. (Please review all options before selecting a response)


1.
Select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have one year of time-in-grade at the GS-14 grade level.
 The time-in-grade requirement does not apply to me (e.g. I have not held a GS position in the past 52 weeks or I am seeking a non-competitive appointment such as VRA, Schedule A, or 30% or more disabled veteran appointment).
 I am a current federal employee, but I do not meet the time-in-grade requirement as specified above.


2.
Are you currently or have previously held a permanent Career or Career Conditional position in the Federal Government in the Competitive Service equivalent to the full performance level of the grade of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility as a current or former Federal civilian employee, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:

- career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
- status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS- 14 level. Specialized experience for this position is defined as Experience leading organizational-level projects and advising senior leadership on the most productive approach to improve the effectiveness, efficiency, and progress of program administration and operation.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS- 14 in Federal service.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Assessment 2
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
I have performed the following leadership functions in work units, team assignments, or programs that I have led, managed, or were assigned senior responsibility. (Select all that apply.)
 A. Determined customer expectations and planned the scope, content, and schedule
 B. Set program/project goals, milestones, and expectations
 C. Developed, defended, updated, and executed program/project budgets
 D. Set performance standards and evaluated the performance of project/team members
 E. Reviewed completed work for technical adequacy and timeliness
 F. None of the above


2.
What is largest group of Program/Management Analysts you have led/managed in the last 5 years?
 Fewer than 10 Program/Management Analysts
 Fewer than 10 Program/Management Analysts with 1 or more technical or support staff
 10 or more Program/Management Analysts
 I have never led a group of people that included Program/Management Analysts


3.
To deliver effective oral presentations on program status, accomplishments, problems, requirements for support, and promotion of program objectives to senior-level stakeholders, one should do which of the below actions? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Avoid jargon or overly technical language
 B. Anticipate potential questions and concerns
 C. Attend to nonverbal cues
 D. Provide context and importance
 E. Ensure the presentation is only 15 mins long
 F. Provide an agenda and goals of the presentation


4.
To effectively establish performance standards and evaluate the performance of a group of subordinates with diverse duties, you should do which of the following? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Have clearly defined and attainable standards
 B. Do the subordinates’ jobs for them if they cannot
 C. Conduct regular performance reviews
 D. Deal with underperformance as it occurs
 E. Use the same performance standards for everyone
 F. Establish standards in consultation with your subordinates
 G. Track subordinates’ accomplishments as well as areas for growth


5.
What are some of the characteristics of strategic plans, operational plans, and business cases?
 Business cases are generally broad in scope, focusing on the organization’s overarching vision, mission, and high-level goals.
 Operational plans generally translate strategic goals into actionable steps and allocate resources.
 Business cases usually contain specific tasks or projects needed to implement operational plans through day-to-day activities.
 Strategic plans usually justify investments in new projects or initiatives by presenting an analysis of the costs, benefits, and risks.
 None of the above.


6.
Which of the following would make a significant contribution to the planning and evaluation of policies or projects through the application of data and analyses? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Determining what data are needed to evaluate policy or project implementation
 B. Disaggregating data from a central dashboard to create multiple dashboards that report on the same policies or projects
 C. Using personal experience to forecast future trends and potential impacts of different policy or project scenarios
 D. Comparing current performance with historical data, industry standards, or best practices to assess relative progress and performance
 E. Continuously evaluating the outcomes against the predefined KPIs and metrics
 F. Using statistical output to create graphs and charts to convey complex information
 G. Using cost-benefit analysis and risk assessment to evaluate the potential impacts and trade-offs of different policy or project options


7.
To effectively and independently research, interpret, and apply federal, VA, and organizational guidelines to your work, what steps should you take? (Check all that apply.)
 B. Use reliable secondary sources to help clarify any ambiguities
 C. Continually monitor updates to guidelines
 D. Seek out best practices in applying the guidelines
 E. Continuously monitor your work for compliance with guidelines
 A. Locate relevant federal, VA, and organizational guidelines
 F. None of the above


8.
Which of the following are considered personal contacts you might have to regularly interact with as a Supervisory Program Analyst? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Private Industry
 B. Other Federal Agencies
 C. VA Senior Leaders
 D. VA Staff
 E. Higher Level Managers
 F. None of the above


9.
Which of the following are essential in providing guidance and oversight of data management processes? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Development of data management plans
 B. Development of data management policies
 C. Development of programs that protect data
 D. Executing plans that enhance the value of data
 E. Executing plans that enhance the value of data
 F. None of the above


10.
Which of the following helps foster the development of others to their full potential? (Check all that apply.)
 A. Facilitating collaboration
 B. Encouraging teamwork
 C. Using discipline to coach employees
 D. Constructively resolving conflicts
 E. Allowing full participation by all employees
 F. Offering learning and development opportunities


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙