Position Title
Fitness Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
NSAPC-26-12897965 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Mar 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
Do you reside within the commute area (within 50 miles) of the duty location(s) listed for this position?
The commuting area is defined as the geographic area surrounding a duty location that encompasses the localities in which people live and can reasonably be expected to travel back and forth daily to their usual employment.
 Yes, I reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.
 No, I do not reside within the commuting area of the duty location(s) listed for this position.


2.
I am willing and able to wear a prescribed uniform while performing duties of this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment.  This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for this position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
In order to meet minimum qualifications for the Fitness Coordinator position, a qualified candidate must possess the following experience and or professional certification, while elements (a) through (c) are preferred, a combination of the two of these may sufficiently qualify an individual to perform their duties as a program director:  

A) Professional certification from a National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA) or Distance Education Accrediting Commission (DEAC) accredited health/fitness organization. (If qualifying based on this element, a current certification must be uploaded in order to be considered.)

B) Documented experience in the competency of business and the design and delivery of exercise program. 

C) At least three years of documented experience in the fitness industry/field for civilian personnel.

 Yes, I possess all three elements as stated above and my resume reflects the required experience, and I have attached proof of current certification.
 Yes, I possess at least two of the three elements as stated above and my resume reflects the required experience and/or I have attached proof of current certification.
 No, I currently only possess one element of the three listed as described above.
 No, I do not possess any of the required experience and/or professional certifications.


2.
Do you possess or are you able to obtain the following within 60 days of hire: (Certifications must be included to receive credit)
Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and First Aid Certification
Automated External Defibrillator Certification
Blood-borne Pathogen Training
Navy Basic Fitness Certification
Please select all current and valid certifications you currently possess:
 A. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and First Aid Certification
 B. Automated External Defibrillator Certification
 C. Blood-borne Pathogen Training
 D. Navy Basic Fitness Certification
 E. I do not possess any of above certifications, but I am willing to obtain them within 60 days of hire.
 F. I do not possess any of above certifications, nor am I willing to obtain.


3.
My working knowledge and experience of applying a wide range of fitness principles, concepts and techniques that govern physical fitness programs can best be described as the following:

Fitness principles include but are not limited to experience in exercise science, strength conditioning, nutrition, weight loss/control, cardiovascular endurance, exercise requirements and projected results.
 I have no working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 I have less than one (1) year of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the fitness industry.
 I have between one (1) and three (3) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the fitness industry.
 I have between three (3) and five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the fitness industry.
 I have more than five (5) years of working knowledge/experience with the above-mentioned duties within the fitness industry.


4.
How many years of experience do you possess in performing a full range of supervisory duties? 

Supervisory duties include, but are not limited to directly supervising staff members, completing hiring actions, taking appropriate disciplinary actions, coaching and developing staff members, conducting annual staff performance reviews assigning work based on priorities and supporting EEO policies that foster positive work environments.
 I do not possess experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess less than one (1) year experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.
 I possess more than five (5) years of experience with performing a full range of supervisory duties.


5.
My experience with budgeting processes including the ability to prepare a budget in accordance with program goals, policies and guidance is best described as:
 I possess more than five (5) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess between three (3) and five (5) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess between one (1) and three (3) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess less than one (1) year of experience with the above duties.
 I do not possess experience with the above duties.


6.
My documented experience developing and adapting new methods, approaches and procedures for the most effective management of a fitness program can best be described as:
 I possess no documented experience with the above duties.
 I possess less than two (2) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience with the above duties.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience with the above duties.


7.
My documented experience in planning and executing a comprehensive fitness, aquatics and/or sports program that includes a variety of fitness and aquatics activities and individual and team sports can best be described as:
 I do not possess experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 I possess less than two (2) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 I possess between two (2) and four (4) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.
 I possess more than four (4) years of experience in planning and executing fitness programs as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙