Position Title
Program Analyst (Inspector) - Recent Graduate
Agency
Office of the Inspector General
Announcement Number
RG-12926795-26-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 01, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Pathways Recent Graduate - Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate?
Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree, due to military service obligation, have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


8.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C.)1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The Program Analyst for this position will be expected to be able to collect and analyze information from diverse data sources; interview individuals using structured questionnaires; evaluate internal and external policy; communicate complex and/or controversial issues both in writing and verbally; prepare segments of evaluation reports addressing an organization's productivity and efficiency, including conclusions and recommendations; and use various databases and spreadsheets, and develop graphs, charts, and other data visualizations to organize, analyze, and present a variety of data.
 

 



1.

 All applicants must meet one of the of the following eligibility requirements to qualify for this position at the GS-07 grade level: 

A Bachelor's or equivalent degree, OR 

2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR 

Specialized experience at the GS-5 level received from paid or unpaid experience that has equipped the applicant with the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: 1) Collecting and analyzing information from diverse data sources; 2) Evaluating internal and external policy; 3) Communicating complex issues both in writing and verbally; 4) Possessing knowledge of how to use various databases and spreadsheets, and developing graphs, charts, or other data visualizations to organize, analyze, and present a variety of data. 

 I possess a Bachelor’s or equivalent degree.
 I possess 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-5 level received from paid or unpaid experience that has equipped me with the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: 1) Collecting and analyzing information from diverse data sources; 2) Evaluating internal and external policy; 3) Communicating complex issues both in writing and verbally; 4) Possessing knowledge of how to use various databases and spreadsheets, and developing graphs, charts, or other data visualizations to organize, analyze, and present a variety of data.
 My eligibility does not match any of the options above.


2.

All applicants must meet one of the of the following eligibility requirements to qualify for this position at the GS-09 grade level:

A Master's or equivalent degree, OR
2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR
LL.B. or J.D., if related, OR
Specialized experience at the GS-7 level is paid or unpaid experience that has equipped the applicant with the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: 1) Collecting and analyzing information from diverse data sources; 2) Interviewing individuals to gather information; 3) Evaluating internal and external policy; 4) Communicating complex and/or controversial issues both in writing and verbally; 5) Possessing sound knowledge of how to use various databases and spreadsheets, and developing graphs, charts, and other data visualizations to organize, analyze, and present a variety of data.
 I possess a Master's or equivalent degree.
 I possess 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree.
 I possess a LL.B. or J.D.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-7 level received from paid or unpaid experience that has equipped the applicant with the specific knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the duties of the position. Examples of specialized experience include but are not limited to: 1) Collecting and analyzing information from diverse data sources; 2) Interviewing individuals to gather information; 3) Evaluating internal and external policy; 4) Communicating complex and/or controversial issues both in writing and verbally; 5) Possessing sound knowledge of how to use various databases and spreadsheets, and developing graphs, charts, and other data visualizations to organize, analyze, and present a variety of data.
 My eligibility does not match any of the options above.


3.
Do you meet one of the following basic Recent Graduate eligibilities as stated below:
Must have obtained a qualifying master's, professional, doctoral, or technical/vocational degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution within the previous 2 years from close of announcement date.  Applications will also be accepted from individuals expected to graduate and have a conferred degree within 90 days after the closing date of this announcement; OR
Preference-eligible veterans who have been precluded from applying due to their military service obligation have as much as 6 years after acquiring a qualifying degree to apply.  Applicants will also be accepted from individuals expected to graduate and have a conferred degree within 90 days after the closing date of this announcement" to the second bullet.
 I am within 2 years of receiving a degree or certificate and will have received a conferred degree within 90 days of the closing date of the announcement.
 I am a veteran precluded from applying due to military service, and are within 6 years of receiving a degree or certificate and will have received a conferred degree within 90 days of the closing date of the announcement.
 The criteria of when I received my degree or certificate is not reflected in the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙