Position Title
SECURITY SPECIALIST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-12974077-AF-26-126 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 29, 2026 to Jun 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Jefferson Barracks, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess experience, education or training which provided a general knowledge of principles of organization, management, and administration; experience compiling reports, letters, memoranda, etc., and required person-to-person contacts to convey information; experience which demonstrates the ability to provide technical guidance and assistance in the type of work or in comparable work of the position to be filled; and experience using computer and automation systems?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level or pay band in the Federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector that demonstrates your ability to protect the area and personnel within the boundaries of an installation, perform all aspects of a police security function that includes apprehension, detention, evidence preservation, investigations of accidents and suspicious activities, promoting community relations, dispatch operations and crime prevention; performs and enforces the full range of police officer duties within an installation; mirandize suspects, preserve evidence, and testify in court as it pertains to enforcing laws and regulations; directs and ensures thorough investigations of accidents, suspicious activities, crimes and arrests, and promotes community relations; and directs and supervises the dispatch operation activities involving security force patrols to scenes of crimes, accidents, natural disasters, and apprehensions? The specialized experience must also demonstrate the ability to exercise supervisory personnel management responsibilities; plan, organize, and direct operational activities, ensuring security and law enforcement functions comply with legal/regulatory requirements and meet customer needs; establish, revise, or review policies, procedures, mission objectives, and organization design as necessary to eliminate work problems or barriers to mission accomplishment, promote team building, implement quality improvements, or respond to concerns with regulatory compliance and/or customer requirements; plan work for accomplishment by subordinate units, sets and adjusts short-term priorities, and prepares schedules based on consideration of difficulty of requirements and assignments.
 Yes
 No


3.
Have you been convicted of a qualifying crime of domestic violence?
 Yes
 No


4.
In detail, explain your experience initiating corrective action or advises branch/section chiefs and supervisors about selecting the best course of action considering relative costs and available funding, regulatory requirements, the range of acceptable security decisions, and chances of achieving successful results.


5.
In detail, explain your experience determining vehicle requirements, monitoring vehicle status and training program and reporting and investigating incidents.


6.
In detail, explain your experience preparing lesson plans and teaching formal or informal training courses.


7.
In detail, explain your experience ensuring hazardous and sensitive materials or equipment were properly stored, labeled, and proper disposal procedures were followed.


8.
In detail, explain your experience reviewing and analyzing budget requests submitted by organizational activities to ensure their consistency, accuracy, and adherence to instructions.


9.
In detail, explain your experience performing and enforcing the full spectrum of Police Officer duties.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


10.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙