Position Title
Paralegal Specialist (Recent Graduate)
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
DE-12979318-26-BLC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 22, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Recent Graduates Program
The recent graduate program is for those who have graduated, within the past two years, from a qualifying educational institution or certificate program. The recent graduate program offers career development with training and mentorship. You must apply within two years of getting your degree or certificate (veterans have up to six years to apply due to their military service obligation). 

For more information, review: USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources or Learn more about the recent graduate program...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. If you fail to provide the requested information contained in the vacancy announcement, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Have you completed an academic program of study or degree program from a college, university, or vocational school within the last 2 years? (Veterans precluded from applying due to their military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.)
 Yes
 No


2.
Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the GS-7 Paralegal Specialist (Recent Graduate) position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 level in the federal service performing such duties as: conducting basic research, writing and drafting documents, organizing information as it relates to legal services, and searching legal reference files for information.
 I have one full year of graduate level education in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position, such as: Legal Studies, Criminal Justice, Political Science, etc.
 I have successfully completed all the requirements for a bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement. In order to be creditable under this provision, Superior Academic Achievement must have been gained in a curriculum that is qualifying for the position. Superior Academic Achievement is based on: (1) Class Standing - Applicants must be in the upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision, such as the College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on completed courses; OR (2) Grade-Point Average (G.P.A.) - Applicants must have a grade-point average of either (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B" or better) as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum.; OR(3) Honor Society Membership - Applicants may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the approved national scholastic honor societies listed by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I have a combination of education and experience which may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 18. Add the two percentages.
 I do not meet any of the qualifications listed above.


3.
Select the response that best describes your qualifications for the GS-9 Paralegal Specialist (Recent Graduate) position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 level in the federal service performing such duties as: assisting staff attorneys in preparing pleadings or briefs, analyzing factual data, preparing exhibits and legislative histories, and performing research into factual or legal aspects of assigned cases.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or successfully completed at least 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, OR received an LL.B or J.D.
 I have a combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. To compute the percentage of the requirements, divide your total months of experience by 12. Then divide the total number of completed graduate semester hours (or equivalent) by 36. Add the two percentages.
 I do not meet any of the qualifications listed above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 5 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 2
Carefully read each statement and all possible answers before selecting a response.  You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


1.
What is the correct short form of the following case citation?

Karsner v. Lothian, 532 F.3d 876, 885 (D.C. Cir. 2008)
 Lothian, 532 F.3 885
 Karsner, 532 F.d 885
 Karsner, 532 F.3d at 885
 Lothian, 532 F.3d at 885


2.
What is missing from this citation?

42 U.S.C. 264
 Title
 Section Symbol
 Subsection
 None of the above


3.
What is the correct definition for the following abbreviation? C.F.R.
 Code of Federal Registration
 Code of Federal Regulations
 Constitution of the Federation of Rules
 Constitution of Federal Regulations


4.
What is missing from the following citation?

Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837
 The Plaintiff
 The year
 The Court
 None of the above


5.
What does "Fed. Reg." stand for?
 Federal Registration
 Federal Regulations
 Federal Register
 None of the above


6.
What is the Table of Authorities used for?

 To organize the supporting cases, rules, and regulations used in the brief
 To organize the subsections within the brief
 To organize the subsections within the brief
 None of the above


7.
What is the first element listed when citing a book?
 The book’s edition
 The book’s author(s)
 The book’s publication year
 None of the above


8.
What is missing from the following case citation?

Jones Association, 349 U.S. 760, 763 (2022)
 The opposing party
 The governmental unit
 The pincite
 None of the above


9.
Which explanatory phase has the correct format?
 Denying cert to
 Aff’d on reh’g
 Appeal filed
 All of the above


10.
When do you include cert. granted subsequent history?
 Never include cert. granted.
 Include cert. granted every time it’s mentioned.
 Only if the cert. granted is less than two years old or relevant to the point.
 Only if the cert. granted was over 2 years old when the case was filed.


11.
Is the following citation correct per the Bluebook?

8 U.S.C. § 1103, 1104, 1105
 Yes, all elements are included.
 No, an additional section symbol is needed.
 No, too many sections are cited.
 No, 8 is not an appropriate title.


12.
Do you need to include the subsequent history for the following case?

Wilhelm v. Caldera, 90 F. Supp. 2d 3 (D.D.C. 2000), affirmed 6 F. App'x 3 (D.C. Cir. 2001).
 Yes, always include affirmed cases.
 No, never include affirmed cases.
 No, it’s more than 2 years from today’s date.
 No, only include affirmed cases if it is going to the Supreme Court.


13.
When do you include a comment to the attorney about a red flagged case?
 No need to include comments about red flagged cases.
 Only worry about a red flagged case if it’s within 2 years of today’s date.
 Always include comments about red flagged cases.
 Only include comments about red flagged cases if the attorney requests it.


14.
Does the following citation have the correct format per the bluebook?

Green v. Biddle, 21 U.S. (8 Wheat.) 1, 8 (1823)

 No, Green is not an appropriate name for a plaintiff.
 Yes, all elements are included.
 No, “(8 Wheat)” does not need to be in parenthesis.
 No, the year should be listed first


15.
Does this citation have the correct format according to the bluebook?

Woodard v. Marsh, 658 F.2d 989 (5th Cir. Unit A 1981)
 Yes, this citation is correct
 No, no need to include (Unit A)


16.
I certify that I have not received any assistance in completing this assessment.
 Yes, I certify that I have not received any assistance in completing this assessement.
 No, I do not certify.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙