Position Title
Electroplater
Agency
Army Tank-Automotive and Armament Command (TACOM)
Announcement Number
MCGM-26-13014879-DHA-R2 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 23, 2026 to Aug 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7
9


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Electroplater position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electroplater, WG-3711-05 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Electroplater duties to include: (1) Aptitude for understanding and using tools; (2) Monitor/use different types of manufacturing/industrial equipment; (3) Use basic measuring instruments to check accuracy of dimensions; (4) Hard coats aluminum alloy parts; and (5) Monitors immersion times and density required based on specific instructions.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Electroplater duties to include:(1) Aptitude for understanding and using tools; (2) Monitor/use different types of manufacturing/industrial equipment; (3) Use basic measuring instruments to check accuracy of dimensions; and (4) Hard coats aluminum alloy parts.
 I have the ability to perform common Electroplater duties to include: (1) Aptitude for understanding and using tools; (2) Monitor/use different types of manufacturing/industrial equipment; and (3) Use basic measuring instruments to check accuracy of dimensions.
 I have the ability to perform simple Electroplater duties such as removing and replacing parts following standard methods of maintenance and repair.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electroplater, WG-3711-07 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Electroplater duties to include (1) Perform metal finishing on different types of metals; (2) Use equipment in manufacturing/industrial environment; (3) Participate in the processing and/ or treatment of metals used in manufacturing/industrial environment; (4) Follows the environmental control processes relating to liquid, air, and solid hazardous waste management; and (5) Operates electric bridge cranes to lift, transport, and position materials in open areas of shops .
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Electroplater duties to include (1) Perform metal finishing on different types of metals; (2) Use equipment in manufacturing/industrial environment; (3) Participate in the processing and/ or treatment of metals used in manufacturing/industrial environment; and (4) Follows the environmental control processes relating to liquid, air, and solid hazardous waste management.
 I have the ability to perform common Electroplater duties to include (1) Perform metal finishing on different types of metals; (2) Use equipment in manufacturing/industrial environment; and (3) Participate in the processing and/ or treatment of metals used in manufacturing/industrial environment.
 I have the ability to perform simple Electroplater duties such as removing and replacing parts following standard methods of maintenance and repair.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Electroplater, WG-3711-09 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Electroplater duties to include: (1) Perform electroplating and metal finishing on different types of metals of equipment used in manufacturing/industrial environment; (2) Determine thickness of plating; (3) Determine kinds of plating or metal finishing to use for types of metals; (4) Determine amount of electric current in amperes and length of plating time; (5) Accomplishes appropriate post-plating treatments such as baking to relieve stresses built up in plating; and (6) Accomplishes post-processing treatment such as rinsing, dyeing, drying, oiling, etc.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Electroplater duties to include: (1) Perform electroplating and metal finishing on different types of metals of equipment used in manufacturing/industrial environment; (2) Determine thickness of plating; (3) Determine kinds of plating or metal finishing to use for types of metals; (4) Determine amount of electric current in amperes and length of plating time; and (5) Accomplishes appropriate post-plating treatments such as baking to relieve stresses built up in plating.
 I have the ability to perform common Electroplater duties to include: (1) Perform electroplating and metal finishing on different types of metals of equipment used in manufacturing/industrial environment; (2) Determine thickness of plating; (3) Determine kinds of plating or metal finishing to use for types of metals; and (4) Determine amount of electric current in amperes and length of plating time
 I have the ability to perform simple Electroplater duties such as removing and replacing parts following standard methods of maintenance and repair.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Occupational Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙