Position Title
Nurse (Clinical Research)
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-CC-DH-26-13021854 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Dec 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


3.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position at the National Institutes of Health. Carefully read each question and all response options before selecting your answer. Some questions may be used to determine basic eligibility; responses may result in disqualification.


1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the minimum education requirements for a Nurse (Clinical Research), GS-0610-09/11, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I have a graduate or higher level degree, bachelor’s degree, associate degree, or diploma from an accredited professional nursing educational program. Note: Official certification from the Commission on Graduates of Foreign Nursing Schools is required for individuals who graduated from foreign nursing schools.
 My education does not match the choice above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional License requirements for a Nurse (Clinical Research), GS-0610, position as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.

 I qualify for this position because I have a current, active, full and unrestricted license, or registration as a professional nurse from a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.
 My registration/licensure status does not match the choice above.


3.
Did you pass the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN)?

 Yes, I passed the NCLEX-RN.
 No, I did not pass the NCLEX-RN but I obtained licensure prior to its implementation.
 My licensure status does not match A or B above.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the additional qualification requirements for a Nurse (Clinical Research) GS-0610-09, as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have at least 1 year of professional nursing experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 in the federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: 1.) Observing patients' conditions, assessing nursing needs, and providing required nursing care. 2.) Administering prescribed oral medications, hypodermic injections and intravenous feeding. 3.) Observing and recording temperature, pulse, blood pressure, respiration data and effects of medication. 4.) Preparing patients for tests, examinations and treatment; preparing and reviewing records, laboratory sheets, etc. AND 5.) Possession of a diploma, associate degree, bachelor's degree, or master’s degree from a professional nursing program.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-09 level because I have completed a Masters Degree from a professional nursing educational program.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


5.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the specialized experience qualification requirements for Nurse (Clinical Research), GS-610-11, as described in the qualification section of the vacancy announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have completed a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree, from a professional nursing educational program or related medical science field.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-11 level because I have at least 1 year of professional nursing experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: 1.) Providing comprehensive nursing care to patients based on the physician's medical care plan and the physical, mental and emotional needs of the patient 2.) Administering oxygen, IV fluid, blood transfusions and prescribed oral, subcutaneous and intramuscular medications. 3.) Managing nasal-pharyngeal and gastric suction as well as a variety of other drainage tubes; preparing patients for surgical and/or diagnostic procedures. 4.) Setting-up, operating and monitoring specialized equipment such as cardiac monitors, respirators, defibrillators, etc. AND 5.) Possession of a diploma, associate degree, bachelor’s degree, or master’s degree from a professional nursing educational program.
 My experience and/or education do not match the choices above.


6.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will remove you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation (required documents) and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, I may be removed from further consideration or future employment.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will be removed from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙