Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist- Generalist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-13003268-26-AS Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Clinical Laboratory Scientist-GS-0644-7/9/11 position with the Veterans Health Administration. To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements AND any additional grade-level qualification requirements.

Grandfathering Provision: A Clinical Laboratory Scientist employed in VHA on the effective date of the qualification standard (12/3/2024) who did not meet all the basic requirements in this standard may not be promoted beyond the full performance level (GS-0644-11) or be newly placed in supervisory or managerial positions until meeting the full qualification requirements.

Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.


Basic Requirements


Citizenship. Citizen of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.


1.
English Language Proficiency. Clinical Laboratory Scientists must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. ? 7403(f)

Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes.
 No.


2.
Education-
A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.

Do you hold a bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university? A copy of valid transcripts that show conferred date is required when submitting application.
 Yes, I meet this requirement or I am a current VHA Employee in this occupation that is covered under the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard.
 No


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your bachelor's degree.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


Foreign Education-
To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials.
Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following: Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program. OR
The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination.
NOTE: Possession of a certification identified in 4c above automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.
NOTE: A copy of Foreign Educational Credentials Interpretation is required when submitting application.


3.
Certification-
Candidates must meet one of the certification options below. A copy of certification is required when submitting application.
Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held.

NOTE: VHA may waive the certification requirement for persons who are otherwise qualified, pending completion of prerequisites for certification examinations. This exception only applies at the entry level (GS-07).

Please choose from the certification options that best describes how you meet this requirement .
 I have a Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
 I have a Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
 I have a Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT.
 I expect to become certified within 2 years and know that if selected I can not be selected above the GS 7 grade level
 I do not meet the certification requirement.


3a.
Please provide your certification information. If you expect to become certified within the next 2 years indicate "Pending Certification" for your responses. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified with 2 years indicate N/A.

Name on certificate:
Issuing body:
Complete certificate number:
Expiration date:


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


4.
GS 7- Clinical Laboratory Scientist (Entry Level)

Experience.
None beyond the basic requirements.

Do you meet the basic requirements as stated above?
 Yes.
 No.


5.
GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist

Experience or Education. Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience
1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
OR

Education
A Master's degree OR 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science.

Please choose the best response that describes your education or experience
 Experience. I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
 Education. I have a Masters Degree n in medical technology or a directly related science.
 I do not meet Experience or Education


5a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your master's degree, otherwise indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


6.
GS-09 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: In addition to meeting the certification and experience or education for the GS-09 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.
 Yes.
 No.


7.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11 (Full Performance Level)

Experience or Education Candidates at this level must meet one of the criteria below:

Experience.
1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
OR

Education.
Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. A copy of valid transcripts is required when submitting application. 

Please choose the best response that describes Experience or Education
 Experience. I have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
 Education. 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. A copy of valid transcripts is required when submitting application.
 I do not meet the Experience or Education.


7a.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your doctoral degree, otherwise indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


8.
Please provide the following information regarding the academic institution from which you received your doctoral degree, otherwise indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:



9.
GS-11 Clinical Laboratory Scientist Knowledge, Skills and Abilities: In addition to meeting the licensure and experience or education for the GS-11 level, do you possess the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities?
Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.
 Yes.
 No.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible).
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008).
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week).
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications..


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙