Position Title
Athletic Facility Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12986585 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 15, 2026 to Jun 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Hiring Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the Supervisory Recreation Specialist NF 0188-04 position at the Fitness Center. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Please select the following as it relates to your educational and/or professional experience:

*Related field includes Kinesiology, Sports Management, and Business Management.
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + 3+ years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.)
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + 1-2 years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.)
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization. Some professional experience.
 Four-year degree in Exercise Science or related field* + professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization. No professional experience.
 No four-year degree, but 3+ years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.) and professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization.
 No four-year degree, but 1-2 years specialized experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.) and professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization.
 Less than 1 year of experience in the industry of fitness (instructor personal/group, coach, fitness facility manager, etc.)
 No four-year degree, specialized experience or professional certification by an accredited health/fitness organization.


2.
Do you have knowledge of general business principles for finances (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds?
 I have knowledge of general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) and of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 I have knowledge of general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management), and of other Federal agencies budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 I do not have knowledge of either general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management) or knowledge of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.
 I have knowledge of general business principles for financing (i.e. budgeting, cash handling procedures, fiscal, personnel, material and cash management), but not of the Department of the Navy budget process method Appropriated Funded (APF) and Non-Appropriated Funded (NAF) funds.


3.
What is your experience level in planning and executing a comprehensive sports, fitness or aquatics program that includes a variety of activities that meets the needs of the participating community?
 5+ years of experience in managing and operating indoor and outdoor fitness, sports, and aquatic facilities.
 3-4 years of experience in managing and operating indoor and outdoor fitness, sports, and aquatic facilities.
 1-2 year of experience in managing and operating indoor and outdoor fitness, sports, and aquatic facilities.
 Less than or no experience in managing and operating indoor and outdoor fitness, sports, and aquatic facilities.


4.
This position is responsible for supervising a staff to include, but not limited to, facility leads, counter attendants, and volunteers. Do you have experience supervising a medium to large facility staff?
 I have 3 or more years of experience supervising facility staff
 I have 2 or more years of experience supervising facility staff
 I have 1 - 2 years of experience supervising facility staff
 I do not have experience supervising facility staff


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙