Position Title
Quality Assurance Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-EDU-13023778-26-JW-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Instructions: This vacancy is open to Department of Veteran Affairs applicants in the local, Washington, DC commuting area who are eligible for priority consideration under the Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) only.


1.
Do you currently reside in the local, Washington, DC commuting area?
 Yes,
 No
 My status is not described in any of the options above and therefore I am ineligible because I am NOT in the Area of Consideration (AOC).


2.
Choose one statement below that best describes your ability to meet the basic requirement for the GS-1910-13 Quality Assurance Specialist position. A transcript or course listing must be submitted with your application.

 I have completed a Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study in education or a subject area related to the position to be filled.
 I have specialized experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge of the subject area of the position and of the methods and techniques of instruction. Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include: Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements; Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans.; Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system; Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance; Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action; Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods; Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities; Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals; Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections.
 I do not meet the basic requirements described in "A" or "B" above, therefore I am not qualified.


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


3.
At the GS-13 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-12 or held the GS-13 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-13 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-12 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: The following section is used to determine your job-related experience and/or education. Your education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. Select only one response. DISCLAIMER: Do not overstate or understate your level of experience and demonstrated capability. You should be aware that your selections are subject to evaluation and verification based on the resume and other relevant documents you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your stated level of experience and demonstrated capability. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance. You will be asked at the end of this questionnaire to certify your entire application as true and accurate.


4.
Based on the descriptions below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience and/or education for the GS-1910-13 Quality Assurance Specialist.

Specialized Experience: Experience with oversight of quality work products by vendor and assessment of internal controls; comprehensive knowledge of quality assurance practices expressed experience analyzing system requirements across multiple platforms; experience developing, testing, and recommending enhancements and platform maintenance of benefits systems; experience collaborating with IT and development teams to test, recommend, and implement system enhancements; possess the experience preparing and consolidating detailed reports to senior leaders, government officials and stakeholders; experience conducting special focus reviews that address in-depth analysis of systems or processes.

 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


VERIFICATION STATEMENT: Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from Federal employment.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙