Position Title
Materials Examiner & Identifier (Forklift Operator)-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-691207-13024732-CNC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience required to perform the duties of a Materials Examiner and Identifier (Fork Lift Operator), WG-6912-07 position. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes your highest level of experience as it relates to your ability to perform the duties of a Materials Examiner and Identifier (Fork Lift Operator), WG-6912-07, without more than normal supervision. Your resume must reflect the experience you select.

 I am able to perform the most difficult and complex tasks of a Materials Examiner and Identifier (Fork Lift Operator). I have the ability to receive, examine, verify, and identify products, equipment, and procedures for complex categories of materials and equipment, such as those which are toxic, radioactive, perishable, classified, precious/strategic metals, and/or complex electronic or mechanical equipment, assemblies, and components; performs comprehensive research of shipping and storage records, equipment specifications, and manufacturing manuals as required for item/equipment identification.
 I am able to perform the full range of tasks of a Materials Examiner and Identifier (Fork Lift Operator). I have the ability to perform a broad range of standard traffic management in-checking assignments to include identifying hazardous, classified, and sensitive cargo requiring special handling during in-checking.
 I am able to perform the common tasks of a Materials Examiner and Identifier (Fork Lift Operator). I have the ability to review Government Bills of Lading (GBL) and inspects shipments for any discrepancies and ensure data is correct, properly identified, packaged, marked and labeled.
 Under close supervision, I am able to perform simple tasks or I have received training on material handling tasks involving receiving, storing, selecting, inventory and shipping specialized materials and equipment.
 My experience as a Materials Examiner and Identifier (Fork Lift Operator) does not match any of the statements above.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙