Position Title
Supervisory Program Analyst
Agency
Department of War Education Activity
Announcement Number
NC7X-26-13006641-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) Civilian Employees

Do you meet one of the categories below?

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT. You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action. (Block 24 of your SF-50 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "1"); OR

• CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES SERVING ON AN EXCEPTED SERVICE VETERANS RECRUITMENT APPOINTMENT (VRA). You must submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, reflecting current DoDEA Excepted Service VRA appointment (Block 24 must be a "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

Supporting documentation: You must submit the documents which prove you are a current DoWEA employee as described in one of the categories above. To obtain a copy of SF-50s from employment with the Department of War, go to My Biz.

Are you a current Department of War Education Activity (DoWEA) civilian employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Military Spouse
1.
NOTE: This item is for demographic reporting only. It does not confer eligibility or preference. If you want to apply as a military spouse, you must select from the eligibility options above. Military spouse and military spouse preference may not be available for all positions.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Program Analyst position with the Office of Military Community and Family Policy serviced by the Department of Defense Education Activity. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Supervisory Program Analyst at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service which includes developing outreach strategies supporting military community quality of life programs, developing marketing capabilities (e.g., technology fluency, digital expertise, customer data and insights, data analytics), testing marketing technology platforms, alternative media, and/or new tools and techniques, measuring brand awareness, and supervising employees and/or leading teams.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙