Position Title
Program Specialist (QRT)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
341-26-PDP-13023769-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 20, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Failure to answer the following questions correctly, or submit the required documentation listed, could result in loss of consideration for this position. The TARGET GRADE of this position is a GS-12. This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Salt Lake City, Utah, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Salt Lake City, Utah VBA Regional Office?
 Yes; and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 No, I do not meet the criteria listed above.


2.
As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements for the GS-11.
 A- Yes. I have at least one year (time-in-grade) at the GS-09 grade level, or I have held a higher grade.
 B- No. I do not have one year (time-in-grade) at the GS-09 grade level by the time the announcement closes.


3.
As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements for the GS-12.
 I have held a GS-11 or higher grade.
 No, I have not held a GS-11 or higher grade.


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for each grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower
grade level in the Federal Service.


4.
To qualify at the GS-11 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-9 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as knowledge of a complex field of laws, regulations and federal legislation pertaining to the full range of Veterans benefits, which should include the Fiduciary program. Examples of specialized experience would typically include:
 
Experience that demonstrates competence in adjudicating and authorizing veterans' claims.
Experience in the development, examination, investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for disability compensation, disability pension, death compensation, death pension benefits, life insurance benefits, etc.  1
Experience in explaining VA benefits and eligibility requirements to a variety of customers.
Training/Mentoring in investigation, adjudication, and authorization of claims for benefits or compensation.
-OR-
Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related to the competencies.
OR
Combination: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at the GS-11 level. Equivalent combinations of (1) specialized experience and (2) PH.D. graduate education. To compute, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond one year by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100% to qualify. (The applicant's first 2 years of graduate study are not qualifying for GS-11.)

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree OR three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and DOCTORATE education as described in "B" which meets 100% of the total requirement for experience and/or education. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


5.
To qualify at the GS-12 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level or higher. Specialized experience is defined as knowledge of a complex field of laws, regulations and federal legislation pertaining to the full range of Veterans benefits, which should include the Fiduciary program. Examples of specialized experience would typically include:

 There is no educational substitute at the GS-12 Grade Level, and I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level as described in the job announcement.
 My experience is not described above.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙