Position Title
Metro Family Child Care Director
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-13008167 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 16, 2026 to Jul 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
For security clearance purposes, I am or will be 18 years of age or older prior to start of employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current CNIC NAF employee?

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


5.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


6.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


7.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


8.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


9.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
 Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Regional Child Development Home Director. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a 4-year degree in Early Childhood Education, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis) or related field of study AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a Master's degree in the related field of study AND minimum of 1 year of professional experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have a combination of education and experience (e.g. courses equivalent to a major in a field (24 higher level semester hours) appropriate to the position (see above) plus appropriate experience or additional course work that provided knowledge comparable to that normally acquired through the successful completion of the 4-year course of study described above AND 3 years of full time experience working with children and/or youth.
 I have none of the above.


2.
What is your highest level of education?
 I have a Master’s degree in Early Childhood Education (ECE), Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or other related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I have a Bachelor’s degree in ECE, Child Development, Elementary Education, Special Education, Home Economics (early childhood emphasis), or related field of study that included a major study in education.
 I do not have a degree, but I have a combination of education and experience.
 I have none of the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in designing and managing complex programs, which may include programs related to safety, security, disease prevention, employee training, developmentally appropriate activities, parent involvement, and/or facility management?
 I have 3+ years of experience in designing and managing programs, as described above, at the director level in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in designing and managing programs, as described above, at the director level in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in designing and managing programs, as described above, at the director level in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in designing and managing programs, as described above, at the director level in child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis to provide effective financial management support as it pertains to a child and youth program?
 I have 5+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3 to 5 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have less than 3 years of experience in financial management, budgeting, purchasing, and program-level data analysis, as described above, in a child and youth program.
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I have 10+ years of supervisory experience.
 I have 5 to 10 years of supervisory experience.
 I have 1 to 5 years of supervisory experience.
 I have less than 1 year of supervisory experience.
 I have no supervisory experience.


6.
Do you have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in administrating, managing, and operating one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


7.
Do you have experience in overseeing one or more of the following DoD Child and Youth Program areas: Child Development Centers (CDC), Family Child Care/Child Development Homes (FCC/CDH), Youth Programs (YP), and/or Child and Youth Education Services (CYES) (School Liaison)?
 I have experience in overseeing all four of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing at least three of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing at least two of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have experience in overseeing one of the DoD Child and Youth Program areas described above.
 I have no experience in the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙