Position Title
HR SPECIALIST (MILITARY)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12992768-AR-26-535 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have administrative or clerical experience, education, or training which demonstrates the ability to perform the duties of the position; experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

(MUST address these general experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE -OR- EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS

Must have one of the following:

A) 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-7. Experience that prepared the applicant to perform the duties of the position. Experience may include human resources program's business competencies, familiarity with the subject matter or processes used in human resources programs associated with DoD, U.S. Army, or U.S. Air Force, or similar human resources experience. (MUST address these specialized experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this position)

-OR-

B) Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related. (Must submit applicable transcripts if using education to qualify for this position)

Do you meet one of the above requirements?
 Yes, I meet option A.
 Yes, I meet option B.
 No, I do not meet the above requirements.


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E1 - E9; WO1 - CW3)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.


5.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of enlistment/reinstatement?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙