Position Title
Attorney-Adviser (General)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA-26-13080273
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Nov 05, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only RA RA585931 12965476
.
Thank you for your interest in an Attorney-Adviser (General) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.
1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Attorney-Adviser (General) at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have the first professional law degree (LL.B. or J.D). (NOTE: You must attach a copy of your transcripts to your application package under the document type "Transcripts" for verification).
 My education is not reflected in the above statement.
2.
Are you an active member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of a State, U.S. commonwealth, U.S. territory, or the District of Columbia?
 I am a current member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. (NOTE: Applicants must submit a copy of a certificate showing they are a current member in good standing with the bar of a State, Territory of the US, the District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, together with a sworn (notarized) statement by the candidate that his or her fitness to practice law or conduct as an attorney has never been challenged in any jurisdiction, OR if either has been challenged, a sworn (notarized) statement concerning the facts and circumstances together with any explanation the applicant may deem appropriate may be submitted. As an alternative to a sworn (notarized) statement, a declaration under penalty of perjury may be submitted in the following format: "I declare (or certify, verify or state) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the foregoing is true and correct...executed on (Date)...(Your Signature)." (28 U.S.C. 1746). This statement and certificate must be submitted/attached with your application/resume and dated within 3 months of the date your application/resume is submitted/attached.
 No, I am not a current member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Attorney-Adviser (General) at the GS-15 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have three or more years of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position. One year of the required professional legal experience is equivalent to the GS-14 under the General Schedule or other pay systems which includes: 1) Interpreting statutes, regulations, case law, and legal authorities applicable to complex real property programs or transactions; 2) Providing legal advice to senior officials on complex real property acquisition, management, disposal, leasing, development, or energy-related matters; 3) Drafting or reviewing legal instruments, agreements, leases, easements, solicitations, legal opinions, or similar documents for legal sufficiency; 4) Resolving complex legal or policy issues involving high-value, controversial, novel, or precedent-setting real property transactions; and 5) Representing an organization in negotiations with private-sector entities, governmental organizations, or other stakeholders on complex real property agreements.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.
4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its support materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.
