Position Title
Accountant
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-ORG-R5-26-12967195 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who completed all requirements of an academic course of study leading to a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree or a certificate from a qualifying educational institution or completed a qualifying career or technical education program within the previous 2 years?
OR
Are you a veteran who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period described above AND you were released or discharged from active duty within the previous 2 years?
OR
Are you a current student who will complete all requirements of an academic course of study leading to a qualifying degree or certificate or will complete a qualifying career or technical education program by the date or within the time period indicated in the "Clarification from the agency" section of this announcement?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
7


Application Questions
1.
What is the graduation date of your most recent degree? If you haven't graduated, enter the anticipated completion date.


2.
The qualification requirements (both experience and/or education) are stated in this vacancy announcement, and your application must clearly contain this information in order for us to determine you are qualified for the position. Identify the portion of your resume that demonstrates you have the required experience stated in this announcement.


3.
For each position listed on your resume, did you include the position title, company, grade/level (if federal employment), weekly hours worked, and your actual beginning and ending dates of employment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you aware that your resume must not exceed 2 pages and that your application status will be changed to ineligible if you do not submit a resume that is 2 pages or less?
 Yes
 No


5.
Have you reviewed the vacancy announcement How to Apply section and Required Documents section to determine what supplemental materials you must provide?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you aware that all applicants, including current EPA employees, must submit transcripts as part of your application package as outlined in the vacancy announcement? Failure to submit transcripts will be considered an incomplete application and you will be rated ineligible.


7.
Which resources led you to apply to this EPA position?
 A. I attended an EPA webinar or virtual session.
 B. I attended a career fair.
 C. I got a message from a recruiter on Handshake or LinkedIn.
 D. I searched USAJOBS.gov.
 E. I got a message from a recruiter on USAJOBS/Agency Talent Portal.
 F. I saw a post on social media.
 G. I was referred by a professional contact, friend, or family member.
 H. Other


Dedication to Public Service
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
To meet the Basic Qualifications Requirements for Accountant, select the option that best describes your education and/or experience background:
 I have a BACHELOR'S OR HIGHER DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law.
 I have 4 years of accounting/auditing experience OR an equivalent combination of accounting/auditing experience, college-level education, and training AND 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law.
 I have 4 years of accounting/auditing experience OR an equivalent combination of accounting/auditing experience, college-level education, and training AND a CERTIFICATE as a CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT or a CERTIFIED INTERNAL AUDITOR obtained through written examination.
 I have 4 years of acctg/auditing experience OR an equivalent combination of experience, college-level education, and training AND substantial course work in acctg/auditing which does not meet the 24 sem hr requirement listed above. I have successfully worked at the journeyman level in acctg/auditing or a related field, VERIFIED by at least two higher level professional accountants/auditors who determined that I have a good knowledge of prof. acctg/auditing normally associated with a 4-yr degree.
 I will meet one of the options above within the time period indicated in the "Clarification from the agency" section of the announcement.
 I do not meet any of the above.


2.
To meet the Additional Qualifications Requirements for Accountant, GS-07, select the option that best describes your education and/or experience background:
 I have 1 YEAR OF SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE equivalent to the GS-05 level in or related to the work of THIS POSITION that provided the specific knowledges, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of THIS POSITION.
 I have 1 FULL YEAR OF GRADUATE LEVEL EDUCATION that provided the knowledges, skills and abilities necessary to do the work of THIS POSITION.
 I have a BACHELOR'S DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law and SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT demonstrated by my CLASS STANDING. I graduated in the UPPER THIRD of my class or major university subdivision.
 I have a BACHELOR'S DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law and SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT demonstrated by my GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA). I have a CUMULATIVE UNDERGRADUATE GPA OF 2.95 OR HIGHER out of a possible 4.0 based on 4 YEARS of education.
 I have a BACHELOR'S DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law and SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT demonstrated by my GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA). I have a CUMULATIVE UNDERGRADUATE GPA OF 2.95 OR HIGHER out of a possible 4.0 in courses completed during the FINAL TWO YEARS of the curriculum.
 I have a BACHELOR'S DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law and SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT demonstrated by my GRADE POINT AVERAGE (GPA). I have a CUMULATIVE UNDERGRADUATE GPA of 3.45 OR HIGHER out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in my MAJOR field.
 I have a BACHELOR'S DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law and SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT demonstrated by my UNDERGRADUATE GRADE POINT AVERAGE of 3.45 OR HIGHER out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in my MAJOR field during the FINAL TWO YEARS.
 I have a BACHELOR'S DEGREE in accounting/auditing OR in a related field such as business administration, finance, or public administration with 24 semester hours in accounting/auditing OR 18 semester hours in accounting/auditing PLUS 6 semester hours in business law and SUPERIOR ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT demonstrated by my election to membership in a NATIONAL SCHOLASTIC HONOR SOCIETY.
 I have a combination of SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE equivalent to the GS-05 level in or related to the work of THIS POSITION and GRADUATE LEVEL EDUCATION that provided the specific knowledges, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of THIS POSITION.
 I will meet one of options B-I above within the time period indicated in the "Clarification from the agency" section of the announcement.
 I do not meet any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙