Position Title
FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM (FAP) VICTIM ADVOCATE
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12942933 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to Apr 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


ESSAY QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Victim Advocate (FAP) position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited university or college in any of the following disciplines? Transcripts must be uploaded/included with your application to be considered for this position.
 Social Work
 Psychology
 Marriage, Family, and Child counseling
 Counseling or Behavioral Science
 Criminal Justice
 I do not have one of the degrees identified above.


2.
In order to meet the qualification requirements for 32 CFR Part 61, Subpart B "FAP Standards," do you have two years of experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault?
 Yes
 No


3.
In order to meet the basic qualification requirements for the 0101 series, which of the following do you possess?
 I have at least 3 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have at least 3 years’ specialized experience in assisting and providing advocacy services to victims of domestic abuse or sexual assault.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I do not have any of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙