Position Title
IT Specialist (SYSANALYSIS)
Agency
Defense Logistics Agency
Announcement Number
DLAJ6-26-13047060-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Information provided in the application process may be investigated. Deliberate attempts to falsify your application information may result in being removed from consideration and could be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment should you be selected for this position. Please ensure the responses you provide are accurate and truthful.

Certification of Information Accuracy - I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information submitted by me in this application, supporting materials and/or information provided in any interview associated with the examination process will be true and accurate; and that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information, may be grounds for not hiring me, disciplinary action or termination; and that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to the questionnaire will be true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Battle Creek, MI
 B. Whitehall, OH
 C. Wright-Patterson AFB, OH
 D. New Cumberland Defense Logistics Center, PA
 E. Philadelphia, PA
 F. Hill AFB, UT
 G. Fort Belvoir, VA
 H. Richmond, VA


3.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


4.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


5.
This question is for informational purposes only. Please select from the following to indicate how you discovered the position you are currently applying for. You may select more than one item.
 A. Referred by a Current or Former Defense Logistics Agency Employee
 B. LinkedIn
 C. Handshake
 D. Facebook
 E. Yello
 F. USAJOBS
 G. Virtual Career Event
 H. In-Person Career Event
 I. Veteran Employment Services
 J. State Labor Office
 K. Internal Defense Logistics Agency Posting
 L. Other Social Media Site
 M. Other Recruitment Boards
 N. Other Federal Agency Referral
 O. Television/Radio Advertisement


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 To qualify for the GS-09 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Assists project managers in documenting project risks, and recommends risk mitigation measures to minimize impact of risks on project success. Identifies and defines system interface requirements with other ancillary automated information systems (AIS) that support agencies logistics business. Conducts and assists in all test phases to include, assembly, component, system, regression, and user acceptance testing.
 To qualify for the GS-11 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Identifies and proposes recommendations on omissions and errors in the business systems requirements. Works with key project stakeholders and business people to formulate and communicate the business requirements for the project. Conducts and/or participates in the research and investigation of technological developments that have the potential to improve the design, documentation, development, modification, testing, installation, implementation, and support of new or existing applications software.
 To qualify for the GS-12 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Negotiates with customers on requirements that are not feasible or cost-effective and recommends alternate approaches. Interprets and translates the approved detailed business requirement into a system Functional Specification that is used to design and develop the technical aspects of the system modification. Tracks progress and quality of all work products, and participates in design and project reviews of the associated with system change. Oversees implementation and maintenance of system software modifications. Participates in release management, software transition, and deployment activities.
 To qualify for the GS-09 I possess master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LLB. or J.D., if related.
 To qualify for the GS-11 I possess A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in A and D above.
 I possess a combination of education and experience as listed in B and E above.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙