Position Title
Supervisory Wildland Firefighter (WFM Lead)
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
WFSDHA-26-13058095-ML-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 08, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)?

For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public.
 Yes
 No


4.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application.


1.

This position is a Primary Firefighter position and is covered under Special Firefighter Retirement. In accordance with Public Law 107-27, applicants must not have reached age 37 at the time of appointment, unless proof is provided of prior Federal service in another covered position, or you are a preference eligible veteran. If you are a preference eligible veteran, you MAY be eligible for this position after your 37th birthday. 
From the choices below, please select the most accurate response below:

 I will not have reached the age of 37 at the time of appointment.
 I have been in the Federal service in another covered position and will provide “to and from” copies of SF-50’s showing I was covered under Special Retirement.
 I am a preference eligible veteran, and I am eligible to apply beyond my 37th birthday.
 I will be over 37 at the time of appointment, I have never been covered under Special Retirement, and I am not a preference eligible veteran.


2.
Minimum Qualificiatons for GW-0456-08:
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to GS-07, in the Federal service that includes work in or directly related to forest or range fire control, prevention or suppression. For this position, examples of such work are: 1), Leading wildland fire activities (such as planning and/or implementing prescribed fire or managing wildfires) to ensure resource objectives can be met from a fire management standpoint. 2), Developing and/or implementing initial attack incident management strategies and tactics to meet the stated resource objectives. 3), Implementing mitigation measures during wildland fire activities to protect sensitive habitats, endangered species, sensitive plants, or cultural values.
 I do not have the experience as described above in A.


This position has a selective placement factor and is subject to the qualifications and additional required training specified in the Interagency Fire Program Management (IFPM) Qualifications Standards and Guide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Are you fully qualified in:
Crew Boss, Single Resource (CRWB) and
Incident Commander Type 4 (ICT4) and
Firing Boss, Single Resource (FIRB)

And have the ability to:
Pass work capacity tests at the arduous level and carry fitness standards.
(You must provide a copy of your Incident Qualification and Certification System (IQCS) Master Record or other equivalent documentation which verifies you meet the required NWCG minimum qualifications for this IFPM position. Failure to provide this documentation by the closing dated of the announcement will result in you being rated as not qualified).
 Yes
 No


Drivers License


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to hold and maintain a valid state driver's license throughout their employment. If selected, prior to entering on duty you will need to provide a copy of your valid driver's license before your appointment. Do you currently have a valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙