Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGER (TITLE 32)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12929331-AF-26-019 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to Jun 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.
 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at (145 CPTF) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 Technician (Title 32-NCANG (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5 with NCANG military membership) working at a NC ANG unit/activity, other than (145 CPTF) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC Air National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently assigned to one of the following: Active Duty Air Force, Air Force Reserve, or a State/Territory Air National Guard other than North Carolina.
 I am not currently assigned to one of the areas listed above.


2.
Are you currently assigned militarily as an Officer (O3 - O5)?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Minimum Requirements that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-13 Financial Manager.
 I HAVE have experience, skills and abilities, 1) in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately, 2) to plan, direct, and coordinate difficult and complex programs, 3) to develop, apply, and adjust financial plans and policies to attain agency objectives, 4) to select, develop, and supervise a subordinate staff, 5) to establish and maintain effective working relationships, not only with subordinate staff, but with all levels of key management officials, the latter particularly requiring the exercise of tact, ingenuity, and resourcefulness, 6) to apply a high level of sound and independent judgment in the solution of financial problems and in the administration of a financial management program, 7) and broad knowledge of agency operating programs, and ability to utilize principles, methods, techniques, and systems of financial management, 8) in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material, 9) in training, mentoring, and problem solving, 10) to make oral and written presentations in a clear and concise manner, 11) to write English in reports and presentation formats, and 12) to communicate clearly and effectively.
 I DO NOT HAVE the experience, education, or training listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-13 Financial Manager.
 I HAVE at least 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12), 1) fundamental working experiences with a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the financial management occupational series and grade, 2) in managing funds through fiscal reporting and financial advisory services, to include budget formulation and execution, travel and commercial accounting, military and civilian payrolls, and financial systems applications, 3) working knowledge of the duties associated with the United States Property and Fiscal Office and the certification requirements for installation funds, 4) included working with the Financial Management Board and handling highly sensitive military or civilian entitlement issues, 5) Competent in planning, implementing, and executing the financial programs directly associated with the objectives of the Adjutant General’s Department and accomplishment of federal military and state support missions, 6) involved the receipt, accounting, collection, safeguarding, and disbursement of government appropriated funds, or oversight authority and management of non-appropriated funds, 7) competencies in directing financial management policies in support of the ARNG military organizations and units, 8) a working knowledge of statutory responsibilities in regard to financial obligations, accounting transactions, disbursement spending, and administrative control of all allocated federal funds, 9) determining financial and budget impacts; and, implementing courses-of-action in regard to addressing DoD, Department of the Army, National Guard Bureau, Inter-Service, and/or non-DoD governmental programs that affected ARNG plans, policies, and missions, 10) skilled in presenting accounting information, Series reporting methods, and/or analytic financial posture interpretations, 11) included work that established and directed financial policies that ensured compliance with fiduciary responsibilities, statutory requirements, regulations, procedures, and national and local policies, 12) resulted in the optimum use and control of financial resources, 13) as a financial advisor and technical expert to senior staff managers, major subordinate commands, and/or the Program Budget Advisory Council, 14) Skilled in providing financial advisory services, such as the availability and appropriate use of Federal funds, through briefings, conferences, and committee meetings, 15) competent in analyzing reports and data derived from financial systems, and, capable of identifying strengths and deficiencies, 16) competent in the interpretation of legal propriety when processing financial program payments, 17) with ARNG disbursement activities and maintaining a base-line knowledge of the pecuniary liability for these disbursements, 18) in developing, coordinating, and organizing an integrated system of financial services, that included budgeting, accounting, financial analysis, operational review, accounts payable, military pay, civilian pay, travel, government travel card program, and financial management reporting, 19) in managing the function of the work to be performed, which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 I HAVE experience and/or education (from an accredited university) to meet the overall specialized experience.
 I DO NOT have at 1 year equivalent specialized experience to at least the next lower grade level (GS-12) listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙