Position Title
Small Craft Operating Worker I
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
CBVK-26-13073140-DE-OC
Open Period
Sep 29, 2026 to Oct 14, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
2.
Are you a United States citizen or national (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island)? For more information, review help.usajobs.gov/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/public .
 Yes
 No
3.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm: You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL) . Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No
4.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm: you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL) . Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No
Preferences
1.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No
Conditions of Employment
.
If selected, you will be subject to an initial suitability review, determined by a background investigation.
Min Quals - BB
.
Thank you for your interest in a Small Craft Operator position with the Federal government. Your resume MUST contain hours worked per week and the dates of employment identified in months and years. If your resume does not contain this information, your application will be marked as incomplete, and you will not receive consideration for this position. You must be clear when describing your experience, we may not make assumptions in determining qualifications. If your resume does not clearly reflect the experience as noted in the vacancy announcement, your application will be marked as ineligible.
1.
Select the response that best describes ability to do the work of the position without more than normal supervision working with operating heavy equipment and operating single propeller outboard motor/watercraft (this experience must be clearly listed in your resume):
 I have used this equipment without supervision and demonstrated my skill to independently perform the work.
 I have experience using this equipment with minimal supervision.
 I have completed education or training, with this equipment.
 None of the above.
.
Instructions: Driver's License.
2.
I understand this position requires maintaining a valid State driver's license as a condition of employment.
 Yes
 No
.
Ability to Drive Safely (Motor Vehicles)
3.
Select the response(s) that describes the type(s) of certification or license you possess for operating watercrafts.
 I have completed Motorboat Operator Certification Course (MOCC) or higher within the last five years.
 I have completed Motorboat Operator Certification Course (MOCC) or higher, more than five years ago and require a refresher certification.
 I have not completed Motorboat Operator Certification Course (MOCC) and will need to take the certification course upon selection for this position.
 I have taken the course but was unable to complete/pass and am able to retake MOCC within the next 6 months.
 I am unable to take the Motorboat Operator Certification Course at all and will be unable to take the course within the next 6 months.
4.
Select the response that best describes your experience operating watercraft as part of your regular duties:
 I operate watercraft as part of my regular duties at least weekly.
 I operate watercraft as part of my regular duties monthly.
 I currently do not operate watercraft as part of my regular duties.
 I have no experience operating watercraft.
5.
Select the response(s) that describe the type(s) and/or weight(s) of motor vehicles you have operated.
 Pick-up truck (under 24,000 lbs. GVW)
 Pick-up truck with trailer combined (under 24, 000 lbs. GVW)
 Forklift
 Front loader
 Excavator (tracked or amphibious)
 Bulldozer
 Diesel-powered pumps
 None of the above
.
Ability to Interpret Instructions, Specifications, etc. (Related to Mobile Equipment Operation)
6.
Select the response that best describes your highest level of skill in using technical manuals to interpret charts of bottom characteristics such as dept, bottom hazards, to navigate around local waters and navigational hazards.
 I have used technical manuals to diagnose complex problems and perform complex tasks with no supervision and have used these diagrams to instruct others.
 I have used technical manuals to diagnose routine common and simple tasks with normal or minimal supervision.
 I have used technical manuals to perform common and simple tasks, with normal supervision.
 I have used technical manuals but would need help interpreting them or close supervision.
 None of the above.
.
Ability to Operate Safely (Non-motor Vehicles)
7.
Select the equipment you currently operate as part of your regular duties.
 Twin screw boat
 Single screw boat
 Winch barge
 Cutter suction dredge
 Crawler dozer
 Booster pumps
 Front loader
 Tracked Excavator
 None of the above
8.
Select the safety standards, guidelines, and/or procedures for which you have received education or training AND have utilized in a work environment.
 Job Hazard Analysis (JHA)
 Lockout Tag Out Procedures
 Hearing Conservation
 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 Respiratory Protection
 Confined Space
 Hazardous Communications/SDS
 Spill Prevention
 Fire Extinguishers
 Infectious Control (Bloodborne Pathogens)
 Emergency Response Planning
 Personal Fall Protection
 Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)
 First Aid
 Hazardous Waste
 Asbestos Awareness
 Workplace Safety and Health Inspections
 Reclamation Safety & Health Standards (RSHS)
 Construction Safety Standards
 Defensive Driving
 None of the above
9.
Select the equipment you currently or routinely operate, maintain for effectively safe functioning as part of your regular duties.
 Assist with upkeep of dredges
 Assist with upkeep of booster pumps
 Assist with upkeep of anchor barges and related river equipment
 Perform routine operator-level preventative maintenance
 I have no experience with the above equipment or operations
10.
Select the operator-level equipment with experience in preventative maintenance
 Decks
 Hulls
 Gasoline engines
 Diesel engines
 Winches
 Compressors
 Generators
 Hydraulic pumps
 Reduction gears
 Electronic equipment of tugboat and barges
 None of the above
11.
Select the response that best describes your experience to safely use hand and power tools.
 I operate hand and power tools as part of my regular duties at least weekly.
 I operate hand and power tools as part of my regular duties monthly.
 I currently do not operate hand and power tools as part of my regular duties.
 I have no experience operating hand and power tools.
.
Operation of Motor Vehicles
12.
Select the task(s) you have performed in operating watercraft in a work environment (not for recreation):
 Tow-barges
 Transport and refuel the dredge
 Move discharge lines
 Transport maintenance materials
 Transport personnel
 Skillfully anticipate the effect of wind and current change (set and drift)
 Navigate around local waters and hazards
 Launch and recover small boats
 Launch and recover dredge
 Apply comprehensive knowledge of U.S. Coast Guard “Rules of the Road” in prudent and safe manner when at anchor, underway, and in adverse currents and weather conditions
 Plot courses in the open water
 Locate precise positions in open water
 None of the above
.
Reliability and Dependability
13.
From the following list, select all the safety standards, guidelines, and/or procedures for which you have experience, education, or training.
 Hearing Conservation
 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
 Respiratory Protection
 Infectious Control (Blood Borne Pathogens)
 Defensive Driving
 None of the above
.
Work Practices (Including Keeping Things Neat, Clean, and in Order)
14.
Select the response that best describes your experience of keeping a shop work area neat, clean and organized.
 I have experience keeping the shop work area neat, clean, and organized as part of my regular duties at least weekly.
 I have experience keeping a shop work area neat, clean, and organized as part of my regular duties monthly.
 I currently do not have experience keeping a shop work area neat, clean, and organized as part of my regular duties.
 I have no experience keeping a shop work area neat, clean, and organized.
15.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No
