Position Title
Program Manager (Deputy Director, Enterprise Industrial Base Coordination)
Agency
National Nuclear Security Administration
Announcement Number
26-NA30-16-12883075-EN Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current excepted service federal employee?

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:

--you served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military; OR
--you are entitled to veterans' preference?

Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour or claiming "derived preference" you may also meet the eligibility criteria.

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/veterans/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this position. Please provide an answer for all questions.


1.
EN-05 To meet the basic qualifications requirements for EN-05 level (Above GS-15), select the option that best describes your experience background.

 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the NQ-04 pay band or the GS-15 level as described in the vacancy announcement under specialized experience requirements.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the vacancy announcement.


2.
Please identify the position and time period (include the month/year) in your resume which reflects this experience.



3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙