Position Title
DEFENSE TRAVEL ADMINISTRATOR-Title 5 OBO
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12899417-T5-26-139 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Apr 01, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you currently employed Title 5 National Guard Employees of the Wisconsin National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.



1.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have at least six months experience of finance program?


3a.
Please explain your experience.


4.
Do you have private or public finance program experiences, along with competencies, that provided knowledge of financial principles and procedures?


4a.
Please explain your experience.


5.
Do you have variety of analytical, technical, and administrative programs that were funded through a number of sources such as, reimbursable accounts and transfer of funds between organizations?


5a.
Please explain your experience.


6.
Do you have experience in accounting, budget, and financial support related duties and capable of interpreting the ARNG DTS travel regulations?


6a.
Please explain your experience.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙