Position Title
Title 10 Faculty Member (Command Programs/Leadership)
Agency
U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command
Announcement Number
SDSB-26-12949524-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
May 08, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


Conditions of employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the incumbent be able to obtain and maintain a determination of eligibility for a Secret security clearance or access for the duration of employment. A background investigation and credit check are required. Are you willing to undergo pre-employment and recurring investigations to obtain and maintain a Secret clearance as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 25% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 25% of the time?
 Yes
 No


3.
The work of this position involves physical effort typical of teaching positions, with substantial platform instruction. The work is normally performed in classrooms and offices at Fort Leavenworth or extended campus sites. Are you able and willing to meet the physical demands of this position?
 Yes
 No


4.
Term employment is subject to a two year trial period. Employees serving a trial period can be removed with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a two year trial period?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Title 10 Faculty Member (Command Programs/Leadership) position with the Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
MASTER'S REQUIREMENT: This position requires the incumbent to possess a Master's (or higher) degree from a regionally accredited college or university. Please select the one statement that best describes the education you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Title 10 Faculty Member (Command Programs/Leadership) at the AD-1701-00 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. (NOTE: You must attach copies of your transcripts).

 I have a Master's degree from an accredited college or university.
 I have a Master's degree and I am working toward my Ph.D. or equivalent Doctorate degree from an accredited college or university.
 I have a Ph.D. or an equivalent doctorate from an accredited college or university.
 I have not obtained any of the degrees listed above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience commanding at the Battalion level either Active Army or Active Guard/Reserve.

 I have at least 12 months of experience commanding at the Battalion level either Active Army or Active Guard/Reserve.
 I do not have at least 12 months of experience commanding at the Battalion level either Active Army or Active Guard/Reserve.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience commanding at the Brigade level either Active Army or Active Guard/Reserve.

 I have at least 12 months of experience commanding at the Brigade level either Active Army or Active Guard/Reserve.
 I do not have at least 12 months of experience commanding at the Brigade level either Active Army or Active Guard/Reserve.


4.
This position requires the incumbent to be a graduate of a Senior Service College. Please select the one statement that best describes the education you possess. (NOTE: You must attach copies of your transcripts to your application).

 I am a graduate of the Army War College or sister service equivalent. (Note: You must provide a copy of your transcripts).
 I am not a graduate of the Army War College or sister service equivalent


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Title 10 Faculty Member (Command Programs/Leadership) at the AD-1701-00 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience commanding both at the Brigade and Battalion level and at least one year of experience with an assignment involving tactical level planning and execution at the U.S. Army Brigade, Division and/or Corps level.
 No, I do not have any of the experience illustrated above.


6.
Your responses to the Eligibility Assessment and Occupational Questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙