Position Title
Public Notice - Operations Research Analyst (Direct Hire)
Agency
George C. Marshall Space Flight Center
Announcement Number
MSFC-26-DE-13066818-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 18, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, AL
 B. Ames Research Center, Moffett Field, CA
 C. Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA
 D. NASA Headquarters, Washington, DC
 E. Kennedy Space Center, FL
 F. Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD
 G. Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, OH
 H. Johnson Space Center, Houston, TX


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12
13
14
15


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education meets the requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree with a major in operations research.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university with at least 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours of courses in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics, and at least 3 of the semester hours or 4.5 quarter hours were in calculus.
 I do not have the education described above.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-07 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service that included: Applying principles and practices of operations research, mathematics or statistics sufficient to perform cost analysis; or applying analytical techniques to identify/evaluate trends and relationships for projects or studies.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of graduate education with a major in operations research or directly related field.
 I have completed a bachelor's degree in an appropriate field and I meet Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) criteria: (1) I was in the upper third of my graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision; or (2) I have a 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA as recorded on my official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (3) I have a 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final 2 years of the curriculum; or (4) I was elected to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A and B above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-09 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service that included: Using operations research to apply scientific methods and techniques to analyze systems, process or operational problems and procedures; assisting with gathering information concerning processes or operations for the organizations' projects or studies; or assisting senior analysts with analyzing and evaluating data and historical trend reports.
 I have completed all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in operations research or directly related field.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master’s or equivalent graduate degree with a major in operations research or directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Assisting with quantitative and qualitative studies and analyses; participating in the design, development, and adaptation of mathematical, statistical, econometric, and other scientific tools, methods and techniques; supporting studies that require careful planning, efficient coordination of efforts, and application of practical scientific judgement in support of ongoing projects, programs, or initiatives.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in operations research or directly related field.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in operations research or directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


5.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Supporting modeling and simulation of operations and associated system impacts, using a variety of complex tools and methodologies to perform analysis; assisting the design, development, and adaptation of mathematical, statistical, econometric, and other scientific tools, methods and techniques to analyze problems.
 I do not have the experience described above.


6.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Performing objective inquiries that include study design, data collection, analysis, interpretation, and result reporting; Supporting the extraction and visualization of data (e.g., resource allocation models, data profiling, trend analysis, simulation); Analyzing data relationships to interpret findings, draw conclusions, and provide recommendations for strategic planning and program development.
 I do not have the experience described above.


7.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Providing technical guidance for modeling and simulation of operations and associated system impacts, using a variety of complex tools and methodologies to perform analysis; leading the design and development of mathematical, statistical, econometric, and other scientific tools, methods and techniques to analyze problems of a highly significant nature; conducting technical studies that require careful planning, efficient coordination of efforts and application of practical scientific judgement in support of ongoing projects, programs, or initiatives.
 I do not have the experience described above.


8.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-15 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 level in the Federal service that included: Leading analytical projects to provide strategic advice; researching, analyzing, and documenting business strategies or resources management issues, and coordinating with senior leaders to develop, recommend, and implement solutions; gathering, analyzing, manipulating, and presenting data in order to facilitate short-term and long-term decision making and resources allocation.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Certification


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and that all responses to assessment questions and application materials are entirely my own work. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙