Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12908026-AF-25-475-C Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current member of the Ohio Air National Guard?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently within the grades of E4 through E5?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you posses 1 year of specialized experience which includes experience, education, or training that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization; experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls; experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment; experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Administers the base Local Area Network (LAN). Implements new network operating systems hardware and software and develops base wide network operating procedures. Analyzes LAN utilization statistics through data collection and performance measures to ensure the smooth, reliable, and robust operation of LANs to include classified and unclassified networks. Coordinates LAN installation, maintenance, troubleshooting, and reviews, evaluates, and fine-tunes components such as virtual servers, hubs, switches, and routers to achieve peak efficiency within the overall network connectivity. Assists in the development, configuration, installation, and maintenance of network systems to include the LAN/WAN. Receives network, communications, and related operating systems from various sources such as design centers and commercial vendors. Maintains an inventory of all network hardware and software. Installs, configures, and troubleshoots network and application server hardware, network operating system software, and peripheral network equipment such as routers, bridges, cabling system, network interface cards, modems, multiplexers, and concentrators. Develops and maintains base wide procedures for networks, system operations, backups, and product assembly and installation. Implements network operating system and/or network application software, and maintain contact with software suppliers to ensure that current releases of software products are in use.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙