Position Title
Examiner/Senior Examiner
Agency
Federal Housing Finance Agency
Announcement Number
DER-26-04-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a US citizen? If so, you can apply under this eligibility, without having worked for the Federal Government before.  Veteran's preference applies.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent. For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? -

OR

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position?

OR

Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Washington, DC
 B. McLean, VA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13
14


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for expressing interest in the Examiner/Senior Examiner position located in the Division of Enterprise Regulation (DER) at the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). You will be evaluated based on your responses to the minimum qualification and narrative assessment questionnaire. Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) and/or HR reviewers will assess your responses to determine your qualifications and proficiency in the required competencies.


1.
Basic Requirement: To be eligible for the 0570 series, you must meet one of the three basic entry requirements as described below. Please select the response that describes your education or experience.

If you select option "A" you must provide transcripts with your application. Failure to provide transcripts will remove you from the hiring process.
 Undergraduate and Graduate Education: Major study -- accounting, banking, business administration, commercial or banking law, economics, finance, marketing, or other fields related to the position. -OR-
 Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: (1) Work requiring a thorough knowledge and the application of commercial accounting or auditing principles and practices (but less than full professional accounting knowledge) with a financial institution. (2) Examining or auditing such financial institutions as savings and loan associations, savings or commercial banking institutions or trust companies, farm credit associations, or Federal or State credit unions. (3) Professional accounting or auditing work that provided a broad knowledge of the application of accounting or auditing principles and practices. (4) Work that provided a thorough knowledge of Federal and State laws applicable to the type of financial institution involved (e.g., savings and loan associations, Bank for Cooperatives, savings or commercial banks, investment institutions, etc.), and of the operations and practices of such institutions. -OR-
 Certificate: A certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) obtained through written examination in a State, territory, or the District of Columbia meets the GS-5 level requirements. Applicants with such certificates may also qualify for higher grade levels based on their education and/or experience.
 I do not meet the basic entry requirement described above.


2.
Minimum Qualifications EL-12: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-12 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-12 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-11 or equivalent demonstrating work experience with the following: (1) Participating in analyses, audits, or other reviews of financial institutions related to technology/cybersecurity, risk analysis, compliance, market risk, credit risk, or related fields; (2) Supporting the review and assessment of compliance policies, procedures, and practices of financial institutions; and (3) Contributing to written reports including evaluative commentaries appropriate to risk management/controls, safety and soundness, or other financial or security matters. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


3.
Minimum Qualifications EL-13: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-13 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-13 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-12 or equivalent demonstrating work experience with the following: (1) Conducting analyses, examinations, or audits to evaluate the effectiveness of technology/cybersecurity, risk analysis, compliance, market risk, credit risk, or related practices in light of applicable laws, rules, regulations, regulatory guidance, or industry standards; (2) Preparing written examinations or analysis of audits or other risk assessments and presenting the reports to senior officials; (3) Analyzing financial activities of regulated entities to identify technology/cybersecurity, risk analysis, compliance, market risk, credit risk, or related issues in financial institutions, present findings and provide recommendations for enhancements related to credit risk, model risk or other financial institution risks; and (4) Assessing and validating risk management or techniques used in risk assessments or other critical areas within large financial services institutions. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


4.
Minimum Qualifications EL-14: This section will be used to determine if you possess the specialized experience needed to qualify for this position. From the description below, choose the letter beside the statement that BEST describes your background relevant to this position at the EL-14 grade level.
 I qualify for the EL/GS-14 because I have at least one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the EL/GS-13 or equivalent demonstrating work experience with the following: (1) Leading complex analyses, examinations, or audits to evaluate the effectiveness of technology/cybersecurity, risk analysis, compliance, market risk, credit risk, or related practices in light of applicable laws, rules, regulations, regulatory guidance, or industry Standards; (2) Preparing written financial institution examinations/audit reports or analysis, presenting the reports to senior officials within the audited organization or with the regulator/auditor; (3) Performing analysis of financial activities of regulated entities to identify potential risks or compliance issues in financial institutions, present findings and develop recommendations related to of technology/cybersecurity, risk analysis, compliance, market risk, credit risk, or related practices within financial institutions; and (4) Working with regulatory requirements and guidelines related to technology/cybersecurity, risk analysis, compliance, market risk, credit risk, or related practices. -OR-
 I do not have the experience required.


5.
Please describe your experience conducting examinations or audits of financial institutions. Include the nature of the audit or examination,
your role in the process, how you identified or analyzed findings, and the end result.



6.
Please identify one of the examination fields (management/governance, technology/cybersecurity, financial risk analysis-capital, financial risk analysis-earnings, market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk-general, credit risk-single-family mortgage loans, credit risk-multifamily mortgage loans, operational risk) and describe an issue related to this you addressed in an examination or audit. Include in your response the issue, facts identified, how you analyzed those facts, and how you came to a conclusion in that case.



7.
Describe a finding from an examination or audit you participated in that was contentious or especially complex? How did you work with colleagues to come to a conclusion? Please include the nature of the dispute, tactics used to analyze and review the issue, and how a resolution was identified.



8.
Please select the examination subject area(s) in which you have an interest or background in:
 A. Management/Governance
 B. Technology/Cybersecurity
 C. Financial Risk Analysis - Capital
 D. Financial Risk Analysis - Earnings
 E. Market Risk
 F. Liquidity Risk
 G. Credit Risk - General
 H. Credit Risk - Single-family Mortgage Loans
 I. Credit Risk - Multifamily Mortgage Loans
 J. Operational Risk


9.
Do you currently hold a commission as an examiner from a federal or state banking agency?
 I am a commissioned examiner with a federal banking agency.
 I am a commissioned examiner with a state banking agency.
 I am not a commissioned examiner.


10.
Certification of Application: I understand that the responses I selected in this questionnaire must be fully supported by detailed descriptions of my work experiences in my resume. If my responses are not supported by my resume, the human resources office will rate my application based on the level of competency demonstrated in my resume. (If you select "No" to this question, you will be removed from consideration)
 Yes, I certify/understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙