Position Title
PRIMARY PREVENTION SPECIALIST (PREV WF)-Title 5
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12962524-T5-26-225 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.


1.
Do you have at least one year equivalent experience to at least next lower grade level as specified in the vacancy announcement?
 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience and knowledgeable with primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention response?


3a.
Please explain your experience. 


4.
Are you knowledgeable with the resources available at the state, federal and local level to address self-directed harm and interpersonal violence?


4a.
Please explain your experience. 


5.
Do you have experience as a SAPR, EO, UDL, SIO and/or with mental health boards?


5a.
Please explain your experience. 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙