Position Title
Plumber-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-420609-12907114-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 11, 2026 to Mar 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for a Plumber, WG-4206-09 positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a Plumber, WG-4206-09 without more than normal supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.
 I am able to perform complex Plumber tasks independently performing more difficult tasks such as various supply, disposal, and utility systems and equipment are installed and operate; planning and laying out the installation and modification of various systems and equipment; interpreting and applying building plans and blueprints; using shop mathematics; laying out such things as angles, arcs, and circles; using trade methods and techniques such as open-flame and electric soldering techniques and seating equipment; installing any combinations of coupling, unions, and joints; use of plumbing tools and equipment such as rules, levels, plumb bobs, dividers, various gauges and meters, various drain cleaning devices, hydrostatic pumps, and torches to make installations and repairs; troubleshooting and repairing difficult or hard to detect leaks.
 I am able to perform a full range of Plumber tasks such as various supply, disposal, and utility systems and equipment are installed and operate; planning and laying out the installation and modification of various systems and equipment; interpreting building plans and blueprints; using shop mathematics; laying out such things as angles, arcs, and circles; using trade methods and techniques such as seating equipment; installing any combinations of coupling, unions, and joints; use of plumbing tools and equipment such as rules, levels, plumb bobs, dividers, various various drain cleaning devices to make installations and repairs; troubleshooting and repairing simple leaks.
 I am able to perform common Plumber tasks such as various supply and disposal equipment are installed and operate; laying out the modification of some systems and equipment; using shop mathematics; laying out such things as angles, arcs, and circles; use of plumbing tools and equipment such as rules, levels, plumb bobs, dividers, various various drain cleaning devices to make installations and repairs; troubleshooting and repairing simple leaks.
 I am able to perform simple Plumber duties including some supply and disposal equipment are installed and operate and use of plumbing tools and equipment such as rules, levels, and plumb bobs to make repairs.
 My experience does not match any of the statements above.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙