Position Title
SUPERVISORY IT SPECIALIST (PLCYPLN/INFOSEC)
Agency
Defense Commissary Agency
Announcement Number
DECA-26-12966716-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 26, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


6.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


7.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


8.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


9.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


10.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


11.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


SCREENOUT
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.

 GS-15 Level: Specialized Experience: I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Serving in a senior leadership role with enterprise-wide authority over IT infrastructure, systems, cybersecurity, and enterprise technology operations, directing multiple subordinate IT organizations or functional areas (e.g., infrastructure, applications, cybersecurity, networks, enterprise services), providing enterprise-wide leadership and final authority over IT strategy, architecture, governance, cybersecurity, and operational execution, leading major IT modernization, integration, acquisition, and sustainment efforts, including contract oversight and source selection for complex systems, and managing enterprise IT budgets and representing the organization in executive level negotiations, interagency engagements, and high impact IT policy forums.
 I do not possess the required experience/education to qualify for this position.


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


2.
An enterprise IT organization has independently evolved infrastructure, cybersecurity, and application portfolios over time. A recent audit finds: duplicated enterprise services across divisions; inconsistent cybersecurity control implementation; conflicting modernization priorities tied to different mission sponsors; and significant sunk-cost investments in legacy systems still under contract. Senior leadership directs you to "fix governance without disrupting operations or losing mission capability." What is the BEST enterprise-level approach?

 Implement an enterprise operating model that integrates governance, architecture, cybersecurity risk acceptance, and portfolio investment decision rights, while sequencing rationalization to avoid mission disruption and incorporating contract realignment strategies for legacy systems.
 Create a consolidated inventory of all IT assets and report duplication to leadership.
 Establish a governance board and begin aligning priorities across portfolios incrementally.
 Issue immediate standardization mandates across all divisions and enforce compliance timelines.


3.
You are directing a major enterprise migration from on-premise infrastructure to a hybrid cloud environment. Constraints include: legacy systems with unknown dependencies; strict cybersecurity compliance requirements (DoW security controls); zero tolerance for prolonged mission downtime; limited cloud engineering maturity across workforce conflicting vendor solutions and architectures. What is the BEST enterprise cloud deployment strategy?

 Execute a rapid “lift-and-shift” migration to cloud to meet schedule targets.
 Migrate non-critical systems first and determine architecture later.
 Implement a phased hybrid-cloud adoption strategy using application dependency mapping, workload segmentation (refactor/rehost/replatform), security control inheritance mapping, and mission-based migration sequencing with integrated governance, DevSecOps enablement, and continuous risk authorization.
 Select a single cloud provider and standardize all systems to that platform.


4.
A critical enterprise system is operating under an Authorization to Operate (ATO) with known residual high risks. Mission leadership refuses to accept system downtime, while cybersecurity officials require immediate remediation before continued operation. What is the BEST leadership action?

 Continue operations and document risk for future review.
 Shut down the system until all vulnerabilities are resolved.
 Reduce system functionality to limit exposure while remediation occurs.
 Convene an enterprise risk governance decision involving Authorizing Officials, mission owners, and cybersecurity leadership to formally adjudicate risk acceptance, define compensating controls, and implement time-bound remediation with continuous monitoring.


5.
Multiple senior stakeholders (mission owners, cybersecurity leadership, acquisition officials, and external oversight bodies) are in disagreement about: acceptable cyber risk thresholds, modernization funding priorities, system retirement timelines.
Each group has valid but conflicting statutory or mission-driven requirements. What is the BEST leadership approach?

 Escalate all decisions to the CIO for final resolution.
 Document disagreements and proceed with the majority position.
 Facilitate additional working groups until consensus is reached.
 Lead structured executive governance alignment using decision rights frameworks, tradeoff modeling (risk/cost/mission impact), and formal adjudication through governance boards with documented accountability for acceptance of risk, funding prioritization, and lifecycle decisions.


6.
A cascading failure in enterprise IT infrastructure disrupts: network operations, service desk functionality, application availability across multiple regions. Restoration efforts are fragmented across teams with inconsistent priorities. What is the BEST enterprise response strategy?

 Allow each system owner to restore services independently.
 Focus only on restoring the most visible systems first.
 Establish a centralized incident command structure after initial recovery.
 Activate enterprise incident command and continuity operations framework, prioritize mission-critical functions using dependency mapping, coordinate cross-domain restoration sequencing, and conduct systemic root cause analysis with enterprise resiliency redesign.


7.
An enterprise IT modernization program has reached a critical decision point. The program: has delivered partial operational capability across several regions; is significantly over budget and behind schedule depends on legacy systems scheduled for decommissioning within 18-24 months; has unresolved cybersecurity compliance gaps affecting full authority to operate; is under active congressional and internal oversight due to prior restructuring efforts.
Senior leadership requires a recommendation on whether to continue, restructure, or terminate the program. Any decision will have mission readiness, cost, and reputational implications. What is the BEST executive-level approach?

 Continue the program as-is to preserve prior investment and avoid disruption to deployed capabilities.
 Terminate the program immediately to prevent additional cost overruns and compliance risk exposure.
 Pause the program until cybersecurity compliance issues are fully resolved and funding can be reassessed.
 Conduct an integrated enterprise decision analysis that evaluates mission dependency, operational impact of decommissioned legacy systems, cybersecurity authorization risks, lifecycle cost to complete vs. restart alternatives, and stakeholder/governance constraints, then present structured, risk-informed options with explicit tradeoffs and a defensible recommendation for executive adjudication.


8.
Which statement BEST reflects effective executive IT leadership in a mission-critical federal environment?

 Ensuring IT systems meet technical requirements on time and within budget.
 Setting enterprise IT direction, establishing governance structures, aligning technology investments with mission outcomes, and exercising authoritative decision-making over competing priorities, risks, and resource allocation.
 Coordinating IT projects across divisions to ensure alignment.
 Managing IT staff performance and resolving operational issues.


9.
An enterprise IT transformation initiative is technically sound but is experiencing: resistance from subordinate IT divisions; inconsistent adoption of new standards; uneven implementation across geographically dispersed teams. What is the BEST enterprise change leadership approach?

 Issue mandatory compliance directives and enforce penalties.
 Implement a structured transformation governance model with executive sponsorship, accountability frameworks (RACI), performance-linked adoption metrics, and embedded change champions integrated into operational decision-making and resource allocation.
 Allow divisions to adopt changes at their own pace.
 Increase training sessions and communication campaigns.


10.
When presenting an enterprise IT investment strategy to Congress or DoW senior leadership, what is the BEST approach?

 Provide detailed technical system specifications.
 Focus on project timelines and milestones.
 Emphasize cost savings and efficiency metrics.
 Translate technical investments into mission impact, risk posture, readiness implications, and lifecycle value, while clearly articulating tradeoffs, uncertainty, and governance-backed decision rationale.


11.
You are presented with three competing enterprise IT modernization initiatives:
Initiative A: Cybersecurity modernization required for compliance within 12 months.
Initiative B: Mission application modernization with high user impact but low compliance urgency.
Initiative C: Infrastructure refresh with high operational risk if delayed.
Funding is insufficient for full execution of all three in the same fiscal year. What is the BEST decision-making approach?

 Prioritize the initiative with the largest budget request.
 Fund cybersecurity first and defer the others automatically.
 Use stakeholder voting to determine prioritization.
 Apply a mission-risk-value framework that integrates cybersecurity compliance mandates, operational continuity risk, lifecycle cost exposure, and dependency mapping, then phase investments with explicit deferral risk acceptance and governance-approved sequencing.


12.
An enterprise system modernization initiative is underway involving significant cloud migration and data integration across multiple mission systems. During execution, you identify the following issues:
The system boundary definition does not clearly align with the Authorization Boundary required under the Risk Management Framework process (NIST SP 800-37).
Security controls are being inherited inconsistently across cloud and on-premise environments (NIST SP 800-53 control application gaps).
The CIO has not been fully engaged in the investment decision lifecycle for scope expansion, raising FITARA governance concerns.
Documentation does not fully support OMB A-130 requirements for privacy, security, and information lifecycle management.
Acquisition actions are proceeding without fully updated enterprise architecture alignment review.
Senior leadership asks you to determine the correct governance correction approach while avoiding disruption to mission delivery timelines. What is the BEST course of action?
 Re-establish enterprise governance alignment by formally correcting the Risk Management Framework authorization boundary definition, enforcing CIO-level oversight of IT investment decision points under the Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act , ensuring A-130 compliance for information lifecycle and privacy requirements, and integrating security control inheritance validation into the enterprise architecture review and authorization lifecycle prior to continued system expansion.
 Pause all modernization activities until Risk Management Framework authorization boundary issues are fully resolved.
 Allow the program to proceed while governance documentation is updated retroactively to avoid delays.
 Limit scope of the cloud migration to systems already fully authorized under existing Authorizations to Operate.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙