Position Title
TRAINING SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
PA-12931354-AR-26-092 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 08, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Employment Criteria
1.
What is your current Unit of Assignment? If you are not currently in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example 1/111th Infantry, 193rd SOW)


2.
What is your current military grade? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A. (Example: E1, WO1, O1)


3.
What is your current MOS (Army) or AFSC (Air Force)? If you are not currently serving in any branch of service, please put N/A.


4.
From the categories below, please select your current status.
 AOC 1: NG Employees at the Deputy Chief of Staff G3
 AOC 2: NG employees in the Deputy Chief of Staff G3
 AOC 3: NG Employees of the Pennsylvania National Guard
 AOC 4: All service members of the Pennsylvania National Guard (This includes M-Day Soldiers, Temporary Technicians and AGR Personnel)
 AOC 5: Individuals who are currently serving in another branch of service who are willing to become members of the PANG
 AOC 6: Individuals with Prior Service or No Prior Service, who are not currently in any branch of service AND are willing to become members of the PANG
 Those individuals who are not willing to join the Pennsylvania National Guard.


5.
Are you currently an Officer in the grade of O1 - O4 in the Pennsylvania National Guard?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
All Series GS-1712 candidates must be certified at the next higher level before being eligible for that level. Each applicant must have the education and validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade. Applicants must have the experiences, education, or training that demonstrates the ability to follow directions, to read, understand, with the ability to retain and recall a variety of instructions, regulations, and procedures; and, most importantly for specific positions, must have the competencies (Skills, Knowledge, Abilities and Behaviors) to translate specific subjects criteria and information into a teaching/training capability. Do you have these experiences?

 Yes, I do.
 No, I do not.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Do you have at least 36 months experience? Have experiences that demonstrated particular knowledge, skills, abilities and behaviors to successfully perform the duties of the position? Knowledge of Army or Air Force vision, values, organization, policy, and mission is mandatory? Knowledge in training centers, training programs, schools, and units for these systems? Have experiences in conducting and developing education and training programs? Also, experienced in conducting, supervising, or developing education or training programs? Knowledge in the Army or Air Force education and training policy requirements? Experienced in managing programs to include developmental education, voluntary education, advanced academic education, promotion testing, and libraries? Knowledge is mandatory of audio-visual presentations, educational tests and measurements, and instructing techniques? Do you have these experiences?
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Are you related to anyone in this agency?

 Yes, I have a relative employed with this agency.
 No, I am not related to anyone in this agency.


4.
Have you been separated for cause from a federal position?
 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, my answers are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith.
 Yes.
 No, I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙