Position Title
FFSP Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
25-12792064 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2025 to Sep 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for an FFSC Sexual Assault Response Coordinator. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. All education and experience stated in answers must be reflected in resume and/or transcripts.


1.
Which of the following do you possess in order to meet the basic requirements of the 0101 Social Science Series?
 I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in behavioral or social science; or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have at least four (4) years of appropriate experience demonstrated to represent acquired knowledge of one or more of the behavioral or social sciences equivalent to a major in the field.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and specialized experience. (Equivalent combination is described here: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/generalschedule-qualification-standards/#url=GS-PROF)
 I have no experience with the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you have at least four (4) years of specialized experience in victim assistance or advocacy within either military or civilian sector? (Note, if basic qualification is met with experience, this may also be credited for specialized experience requirement, if appropriate (e.g. four years of appropriate experience in victim assistance or advocacy, also fully meets specialized experience requirement.)
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have conducting effective sexual assault prevention and response trainings and briefings?
 I have 3+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 2 to 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 2 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have providing non-clinical, one-on-one support to victims of sexual harassment?
 I have 4+ years of experience with the above.
 I have 3 to 4 years of experience with the above.
 I have less than 3 years of experience with the above.
 I have no experience with the above.


5.
Which describes your experience interpreting and applying sexual assault prevention and response policies (please select all that apply)?
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Navy (DON).
 I have experience with the above within the Department of Defense (DoD), but outside of the DON.
 I have experience with the above within the federal government, but outside of the DoD.
 I have experience with the above within state or local government, or private industry.
 I have no experience with the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙