Position Title
Labor Management Relations Examiner (Labor Relations Investigator (Bridge))
Agency
National Labor Relations Board
Announcement Number
NL26IMP12964612AC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 19, 2026 to Jun 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current NLRB employee on a Career or Career Conditional appointment in the competitive service? Block 24 on your SF-50 must reflect "1" or "2".  Block 34 must reflect "1".
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NLRB employee on a Career or Career Conditional appointment in the competitive service and have held the highest grade of this recruitment? Block 24 on your SF-50 must reflect "1" or "2". Block 34 must reflect "1".
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 X. Phoenix, AZ
 Y. Little Rock, AR
 Z. Los Angeles, CA
 AA. Oakland, CA
 AB. San Diego, CA
 AC. San Francisco, CA
 AD. Denver, CO
 AE. Hartford County, CT
 AF. Washington, DC
 AG. Miami, FL
 AH. Tampa, FL
 AI. Atlanta, GA
 AJ. Honolulu, HI
 AK. Chicago, IL
 AL. Peoria, IL
 AM. Indianapolis, IN
 AN. Overland Park, KS
 AO. New Orleans, LA
 AP. Baltimore, MD
 AQ. Boston, MA
 AR. Detroit, MI
 AS. Grand Rapids, MI
 AT. Minneapolis, MN
 AU. Kansas City, MO
 AV. Saint Louis, MO
 B. Las Vegas, NV
 C. Newark, NJ
 D. Albuquerque, NM
 E. Albany, NY
 F. Brooklyn, NY
 G. Buffalo, NY
 H. New York, NY
 I. Winston-Salem, NC
 J. Cincinnati, OH
 K. Cleveland, OH
 L. Tulsa, OK
 M. Portland, OR
 N. Philadelphia, PA
 O. Pittsburgh, PA
 P. San Juan, PR
 Q. Memphis, TN
 R. Nashville, TN
 S. Fort Worth, TX
 T. Houston, TX
 U. San Antonio, TX
 V. Seattle, WA
 W. Milwaukee, WI


2.
This is a posting for current NLRB Competitive Service employees.

Your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50 must reflect 1 or 2 in item 24; and must reflect 1 in item 34.

This document is required as part of your application package.

Do you acknowledge that this position is only open to current NLRB Competitive Service employees?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you registered with the Selective Service?
 Yes
 No


4.
This is not a remote position.

The selected candidate will be expected to report in person to work.

Do you acknowledge that this is not a remote position?
 Yes
 No


5.
How did you hear about National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and/or this Notice of Vacancy? (Note: Responses only serve to provide data to improve NLRB's recruiting activities.)
American Bar Association
College or University Career Services (Please Specify Name of School below)
Facebook
Glassdoor
Indeed
Instagram
LinkedIn
NLRB Careers Webpage
NLRB Employee
Recruiting Event (Please Specify Name of Recruiting Event or include Bar Code Number - if applicable - below)
USAJOBS
X (Formerly Twitter)
Other (Please Specify below)


6.
If your response to this question was College or University Career Services, NLRB Employee, or Other, please specify.

If your response to this question, was Recruiting Event, please specify event or Bar Code Number - if applicable.


Merit Hiring Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the response which most accurately describes your experience and demonstrates your ability to perform as a Labor Management Relations Examiner (Labor Relations Investigator (Bridge)) at the GS-5 grade level.
General experience is described as:
Experience that provides evidence of the ability to meet and deal objectively and effectively with people (e.g., as a counselor, personnel investigator (conducting research into an individual's personal, professional and criminal history to assess suitability for employment), and/or as a crediti rating investigator (analyzing financial history and verifying data)); and
Experience that provides evidence to survey organizations and analyze management methods and practices (e.g., as a management analyst); and
Experience that provides evidence to collect, assemble, and analyze pertinent facts and to write reports on findings (e.g., as in investigative or research types of work).
OR

EDUCATION: Have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in labor relations, industrial relations, personnel/human resource administration, business administration, economics, labor economics, labor law, political science, accounting, or law; or other education that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in these subjects. (Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.)

OR

COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: A combination of education and experience may be used to qualify for this position as long as the computed percentage of the requirements is at least 100%. (Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have 3 years of General Experience with 1-year equivalent to at least a GS-4 or pay band in the federal service or equivalent experience in the private or public sector. General Experience for this position would include providing evidence of the ability to meet and deal objectively and effectively with people (e.g., as a counselor, personnel investigator, credit rating investigator); to survey organizations and analyze management methods and practices (e.g., as a management analyst); or to collect, assemble, and analyze pertinent facts and to write reports on findings (e.g., as in investigative or research type of work). (Please ensure your experience is highlighted in your resume.)
 I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree in labor relations, industrial relations, personnel administration, business administration, economics, labor economics, labor law, political science, accounting, or law; or other education that included or was supplemented by at least 24 semester hours in these subjects.
 I have specialized experience, but less than one year; and I have at least two years of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required three years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the second year (total graduate semester hours minus 36) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (Note: You must submit a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not have the education and/or specialized experience to successfully perform the duties of the Labor Management Relations Examiner (Labor Relations Investigator (Bridge)).


2.
Your responses are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references submitted. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period.

By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you:
Understand this warning, and
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and
Verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes. I verify that my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that, if submitted supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire, that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement, and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙