Position Title
Supervisory Physical Scientist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHM-26-13062244-MP-CBN Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 14, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Current National Park Service (NPS) Employee (Promotional):

Are you a current career/career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2) National Park Service employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:

Current NPS employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a lower grade level than the position being announced or lower than the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Wage System/Trade Positions) Current NPS employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a pay rate that is below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide:
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current National Park Service employee AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

Are you a current, permanent National Park Service employee applying for competitive Promotion?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current career/career-conditional National Park Service Federal employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current National Park Service Federal employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that hold, or have previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being announced.
 
To verify your eligibility as a National Park Service Federal employee, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current National Park Service employee. All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Due Weight
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


2.
Are you including a copy of your most recent (dated within the last 18 months) performance appraisal/evaluation?

Important Note: Please submit 1) a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation and 2) a list of any awards (e.g. superior performance awards, special act or achievement awards, quality step increase, etc.) you received in the last 5 years. Any performance appraisal/evaluation and award documentation you provide will be forwarded to the selecting official. The selecting official will review this documentation and give it due weight consideration during the overall selection process. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation, please submit a statement as to why it is not available. Please indicate if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level.
 Yes
 No


3.
If you did not include a copy of your most recent performance appraisal/evaluation dated within the last 18 months, please provide a statement as to why it is not available.

Important Note: All applicants must submit their most recent performance appraisal showing the official rating of record and signed by a supervisor. If the performance appraisal is not dated within the last 18 months OR no performance appraisal is available, you must submit a statement as to why it is not available (including if any prior performance appraisals/evaluations were at an acceptable level). Failure to submit a valid justification will result in loss of consideration due to an incomplete application package.






Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Minimum Qualifications - Specialized Experience Requirement (GS-12) - Screen-Out Question

Your resume must clearly support your answer, or you will be found ineligible.


1.
Select the one response that best describes your experience as it relates to the minimum qualifications for this position:

 I possess one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level performing professional physical science work in geology, hydrology, air quality, acoustics, soils, paleontology, or related disciplines; developing and implementing scientific monitoring protocols; conducting analysis and preparing scientific reports; providing technical guidance; and leading or coordinating physical science or natural resource management projects.
 I do NOT possess the specialized experience described above. Applicants selecting B (or leaving the question blank) will be rated ineligible and will not receive further consideration.


Basic Educational Requirements - Screen-Out Question

Your resume and transcripts must clearly support your answer, or you will be found ineligible.


2.
Select the one response that best describes how you meet the Basic Requirements for General Physical Science Series 1301:
 I meet the basic education requirement by having a degree in physical science, engineering, or mathematics that included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science (such as mechanics, dynamics, properties of materials, electronics). My transcripts I have included with my application clearly show these required credit hours.
 I meet the basic requirement through a combination of education and experience, where my education included at least 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science, and I possess additional appropriate experience or education that, together, fully meets the Individual Occupational Requirements. My transcripts I have included with my application clearly show these required credit hours.
 I do NOT meet either of the basic requirements described above. Applicants selecting “C” or leaving the question blank will be rated ineligible and will not receive further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙