Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12920656-26-JG Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist position with the Department of Veteran Affairs, VA Augusta Health Care System- Augusta, GA. The following section is used to determine basic requirements for appointment in the federal government and qualification for a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. Please read the announcement in its entirety and review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.  You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. Your resume must provide specific examples or documentation of your experience as proof to support your answers. Your failure to adequately document your experience on your resume may result in you being found not qualified for this position. No assumptions are made regarding your qualifications.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following are the requirements for appointment as a Diagnostic Radiologic [Technician or] Technologist (DRT) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

English Language Proficiency: DRTs must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.

Certification: All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT)(R). 

Do you have this certification, or meet the grandfathering provision (see below) - employed as a permanent VHA DRT on the effective date of the qualification standard (December 13, 2019) and have remained employed in that position?

Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a DRT on the effective date of 12/13/2019 are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including positive education and certification that are part of the basic requirements of the DRT occupation.

Applicants must submit a copy with application. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.

 Yes
 No


3.

Education: Completion of a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE) is required.

Do you meet this Basic Education Requirement, or meet the grandfathering provision - employed as a permanent VHA DRT on the effective date of the qualification standard (December 13, 2019) and have remained employed in that position?

 Yes
 No


3a.
Please provide the following Information regarding the academic institution from which you received your Certificate or Degree.
Name of Institution:
City and State:
Certificate or Degree earned: 
Month and Year conferred:


GRADE DETERMINATION: In addition to the Basic Requirements for employment listed above, the following Education and Experience criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
GS-5 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT):
(1) Experience or Education. None beyond the basic requirements.

(2) Assignment. DRTs at this level operate and monitor commonly used equipment performing routine procedures under general supervision. The technician functions somewhat independently in carrying out these standardized procedures of limited complexity. Deviations from regular 7 procedures, unanticipated problems, and unfamiliar situations are referred to the supervisor for a decision or help. Some assignments at this level also include developmental duties involving more complex procedures designed to prepare the technician for promotion to higher grades in a functional area. Such duties are performed under closer supervision

Do you meet ALL of the requirements above for the GS-05 grade level? 

You must fully detail this experience in your Resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-6 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT):(1) Experience or Education. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.

(2) Assignment. Employees at this grade level serve as developmental DRTs, performing examinations which are routine and standardized in nature. They explain exams to patients in terms they can understand as well as potential hazards. They must also troubleshoot equipment used for diagnostic radiology and exercise extreme caution in the handling and safeguarding of all radiation producing equipment. DRTs must report major equipment malfunctions within a timely manner to service representatives and assist higher graded technologists in performing more complicated examinations.

(3) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
(b) Knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
(c) Knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
(d) Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
(e) Ability to learn basic computer functions.

Do you meet ALL of the requirements above for the GS-06 grade level? 

You must fully detail this experience in your Resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-7 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT): 
(1) Experience or Education. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level; or the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging; or successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging. Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.

 (2) Assignment. DRTs at this level perform a full range of duties but receive guidance and directions regarding unfamiliar or unusual situations for more complex patient issues. Candidates at this grade level may be qualified to provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services.

(3) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
(b) Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
(c) Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
(d) Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
(e) Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills.

Do you meet ALL of the requirements above for the GS-07 grade level? You must fully detail this experience in your Resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-8 Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT): 
(1) Experience. At least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

(2) Assignments. Employees at this grade level serve as staff DRTs at the full performance level. Candidates at this grade level must be qualified to independently provide services in specialized areas of radiologic technology and/or general radiologic technology services with only occasional oversight or direction for highly complex issues.

(3) Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
(a) Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
(b) Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
(c) Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
(d) Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
(e) Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
(f) Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.

Do you meet ALL of the requirements above for the GS-08 grade level? You must fully detail this experience in your Resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙