Position Title
Recreation aid (Golf)
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
EUR26-155 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a DoD civilian spouse OR an unmarried dependent child (including stepchild, adopted child, or foster child) not more than 23 years of age AND

You reside within the local commuting area AND

You have not been appointed using this authority under these orders AND

You have not accepted a permanent position or temporary position of one year or longer at this duty station?

Note: Your application package MUST include the PCS or travel orders authorizing you to accompany the sponsor to the foreign overseas duty station and the effective date of the permanent change of station. If you are not listed as a dependent on the orders, additional documentation must be submitted to verify you are a family member (e.g., copy of your birth certificate). Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a spouse of a Active Duty service member or DoD Civilian (this does not include contractors) or a dependent (under age 23) of an Active Duty service member or DoD Civilian on official orders to Naples? Orders must be uploaded and have a report date within 30 days of the closing date of this announcement to be considered.
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a valid CPR Card and First Aid Card?
 Yes, I possess a valid CPR Card and First Aid Card AND will upload a copy of both
 No, I do not possess a valid CPR Card or First Aid Card but I am able to obtain both within 30 days
 I am not able to obtain a CPR Card and/or First Aid Card


4.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance on equipment.
 I have more than 3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
 I have 1-3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
 I have less than 1 year of work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment
 I have no work experience demonstrating the ability to perform minor maintenance of equipment


5.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity.
 I have more than 2 years of work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
 I have 6 months - 2 years of work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
 I have less than 6 months of work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity
 I have no work experience in recreation or service-oriented activity


6.
Select the statement that best describes your work experience demonstrating knowledge of Gold rules and regulations.
 I have more than 3 years of work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
 I have 1- 3 years of work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
 I have less than 1 year of work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations
 I have no work experience demonstrating knowledge of Golf rules and regulations


7.
Select the best statement that describes your work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports.
 I have more than 3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
 I have 1- 3 years of work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
 I have less than 1 year of work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports
 I have no work experience demonstrating the ability to maintain records and reports


8.
Do you have the ability to interact with a wide variety of diverse people (Command Leadership, Military members, Civilians, family members and non-native English speaking patrons)?
 Yes, I have the ability to interact with a wide variety of diverse people
 No, I do not have the ability to interact with a wide variety of diverse people


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙