Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (INFOSEC)-Title 5
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
WI-12993901-T5-26-277 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 06, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Select only one item for each question.



1.
Do you have 1 year equivalent to at least next lower grade level?

 Yes
 No


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application or its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 C.F.R Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have experience managing a program effectively and efficiently such as Communication Security (COMSEC), TEMPEST and Base Computer Security (COMPUSEC)?


3a.
Please explain your experience. 


4.
Do you have ability to run a program that will be audited at the national level?


4a.
Please explain your experience. 


5.
Do you have experience of program management of a higher visibility of a large WING/companywide program?


5a.
Please explain your experience. 


6.
Do you have experience that requires adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment.?


6a.
Please explain your experience. 


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙