Position Title
Maintenance Worker
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SO-1611-SAMA-26-12998017-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 01, 2026 to Jul 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the minimum qualification requirements for the Maintenance Worker (seasonal) WG-4749-05.


Minimum Qualifications Requirements for the Maintenance Worker (seasonal).


1.
Do you have the ability to do the work of the Maintenance Worker (seasonal) WG-4749-05 without more than normal supervision?
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties as a Maintenance Worker (seasonal). I am skilled to perform work independently in duties such as perform simple and routine maintenance and repair of grounds, exterior structures, buildings, equipment and related utilities, assist higher graded maintenance workers or tradesmen in the performance of their work, performs routine maintenance on campground sites and trails using hand tools to re-grade and reset barriers to restore areas to original appearances and clean and service chemical toilets, restrooms, and other campground or visitor facilities.
 I can independently perform most of the tasks listed in A under general supervision subject to occasional inspection. I can perform some of the tasks listed in A under general supervision of a journey-level worker who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have worked as a Maintenance Worker (seasonal). I have assisted in work such as perform simple and routine maintenance and repair of grounds, exterior structures, buildings, equipment and related utilities, assist higher graded maintenance workers or tradesmen in the performance of their work, performs routine maintenance on campground sites and trails using hand tools to re-grade and reset barriers to restore areas to original appearances and clean and services chemical toilets, restrooms, and other campground or visitor facilities.
 I have the ability to perform simple Maintenance Worker (seasonal) tasks, or I have received basic training in this area.
 I do not have on-the-job training, or the abilities described above.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙