Position Title
Medical Records Administrative Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12921390-26-DCM Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 09, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: Thank you for your interest in a Medical Records Administration Specialist, position located in the Health Administration Service section. The following assessment questionnaire is used to determine your eligibility for appointment in the Federal Government, and your eligibility for referral consideration.

Please select the most appropriate response to each of the following questions. Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy, and to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Failure to claim at least one eligibility will result in an ineligible rating. Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities.

We will not make assumptions and are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. Please make sure to review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Certification:
Persons hired or reassigned to MRA positions in the GS- 0669 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:
(1) Coding Certification through AHIMA or AAPC. Current mastery level coding certifications include: Certified Coding Specialist (CCS), Certified Coding Specialist (CCS) - Physician-based (CCS-P), Certified Professional Coder (CPC), Certified Outpatient Coder (COC), and Certified Inpatient Coder (CIC)

(2) HIM Certification through AHIMA.  Current HIM certifications include Registered Health Information Technician (RHIT) and Registered Health Information Administrator (RHIA).

(3) Health Data Analyst Certification through AHIMA.  Current health data analyst certification includes Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA)  

Loss of Credentials. Following initial certification, credentials must be maintained through rigorous continuing education, ensuring the highest level of competency for employers and patients. An employee in this occupation who fails to maintain the required certification must be removed from the occupation which may result in termination of employment. At the discretion of the appointing official, an employee may be reassigned to another occupation for which he/she qualifies, if a placement opportunity exists.

Please select yes that you have one of the three above.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you proficient in the English language?
 Yes
 No


3.
Education/Experience:

Three years of creditable experience in the field of medical records that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative, and legal requirements of health care delivery systems.
OR

NOTE: Successfully completed training for health information technicians in a school accredited by the American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA) at the time the program was completed may be substituted for 1 year of experience. No credit may be given for partial completion of such training.

OR,

Education equivalent to a baccalaureate degree from an accredited university or college recognized by the U.S. Department of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.

OR,

Equivalent combinations of experience and education may be used to meet basic requirements and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements. For example, two years above high school from an accredited college or university, with 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management, plus one year and six months of creditable experience that included the preparation, maintenance, and management of health records and health information systems meets an equivalent combination.

OR,

Grandfathering Position: Do you qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation).

Other Significant Facts: The full performance level for this qualification standard is non- supervisory GS-11 grade level. At such time as higher-level duties are accrued, are performed with normal supervision, and all qualification requirements are met, incumbent may be advanced to the following position: MRAS GS-0669-7, with the potential to have further advancement to MRAS GS-0669-9, with a full performance (journey) level of MRAS GS-0669-11.
 Yes.
 I qualify for the Grandfathering Position, I am a current VA employee in this occupation.
 No.


4.
GS-0669-05

Do you possess experience, education and/or a combination of both experience and education as outlined above for entry level?
 I do not have experience, education, or combination of both experience and education as outlined above for entry level consideration.
 I have 3 years creditable experience in the field of medical records that include preparation, maintenance, of health record and health information systems demonstrating a knowledge of medical terminology, medical records procedures, medical coding, or medical, administrative and legal requirements of health care delivery systems.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree or higher from an accredited college or university recognized by the US. Dept of Education, with a major field of study in health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 24 semester hours in health information management or health information technology.
 I have combination of creditable experience and education that equals 100 percent may be used to meet basic requirements.


5.
GS-0669-07

Do you possess at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) described at that level.

Experience. In addition to the basic requirements, one year of creditable experience equivalent to GS-0669-5.:

OR,

Education. (Advanced Entry-Level Placement). Applicants who meet the GS-5 grade level may be appointed at the GS-7 grade level, if they possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university in a major field of study in health information management, with an exemplary academic record as demonstrated by:

(1) A 3.0 or higher-grade point average (GPA) out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B" or better), as recorded on their official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; or
(2) A 3.5 GPA or higher out of a possible 4.0 GPA ("B+" or better) based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field of study, or the required courses completed in the major field of study during the final two years of the curriculum.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
Knowledge of current classification systems, such as International Classification of Diseases, Current Procedural Terminology, and the Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS).
Ability to effectively communicate (written and verbal) with medical center staff, patients, and external entities.
Ability to use data collection and analytical techniques for purposes of review, quality control, studies and analysis of health information.
Ability to utilize computer applications with varied functions to produce a wide range of reports, to abstract records, collect and analyze data and present results in various formats.
Ability to work independently, adapt to shifting priorities, and meet deadlines.
 I do not meet the requirements for experience or education and do not demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.
 I meet the basic requirements and have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade and demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.
 I meet the education requirements for Advanced Entry-Level Placement and demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.


6.
GS-0669-09
In addition to the basic requirements, do you possess 1 year creditable experience equivalent to GS-0669-07 that demonstrates the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities and other characteristics described at GS 669-7 level or education AND demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as outlined below?

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to GS-0669-07 that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics described at that level:
OR
Education. Education equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information management.
AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
Knowledge of medical and legal requirements related to health information management and health records.
Ability to provide technical advice and guidance on health information management practices.
Skill in extracting data from various sources and analyzing health information to create reports.
Skill in researching, interpreting, and applying health information management guidelines.
Knowledge of performance and process improvement techniques to develop new or improved solutions in health information manage
 I do not meet the requirements for experience or education and do not demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.
 I meet the basic requirements and have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-0669-7 and demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.
 I meet the education requirements equivalent to two full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a master’s degree or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university in a field directly related to health information management and demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.


7.
GS-0669-11 
In addition to the basic requirements, do you possess 1 year creditable experience equivalent to GS-0669-09 that demonstrates all Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities described at that level or education AND demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities as outlined below?

Experience. One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates all of the KSAs described at that level:
OR,
Education. Education equivalent to three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited university or college in the field of health information management.

AND
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities
Skill in performance and process improvement techniques to develop and implement new or improved solutions in health information management.
Ability to advise management and staff, at various levels, regarding health record documentation requirements and health information management practices based on current industry standards, policies, statues, laws, and regulations.
Ability to plan, justify, develop, evaluate, assess, monitor, and advise on current health information management processes and recommend changes in policies and procedures.
Ability to determine and evaluate compliance with legal, ethical, and regulatory guidelines and accrediting bodies, as they apply to health information management.
Ability to acquire, manage, analyze, interpret, and transform data into accurate, consistent, and meaningful information.
 I do not meet the requirements for experience or education and do not demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.
 I meet the basic requirements and have 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the GS-0669-9 and demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.
 I meet the education requirements equivalent to three full years of progressively higher level graduate education or a PH.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited college or university in a field of health information management and demonstrate knowledge, skills and abilities outlined above.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙