Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST (DATA ANALYTICS) College Graduate Hiring Authority
Agency
DHS Headquarters
Announcement Number
CHA-13042110-26-PRIV Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
To be found eligible under the College Graduate Hiring Authority, you must be a U.S. Citizen who have obtained a qualifying bachelors or graduate degree from a qualifying educational institution, within two years of submitting an application for appointment.
Are you a U.S. Citizen who have obtained a qualifying bachelors or graduate degree from a qualifying educational institution, within two years of submitting an application for appointment (You must submit unofficial transcripts (not diploma) showing conferral of your qualifying degree at time of application)?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your SF-50s, in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director of OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
After Department of Homeland Security Headquarters completes its hiring, the resumes of the remaining candidates referred for selection consideration may be shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you may continue to explore other job opportunity announcements. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other DHS Components and Federal Agencies.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
This position is designated as moderate risk involving national security.  Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation including an automatic record check and letter inquiries to determine suitability for Federal employment and/or the position.  Are you willing to undergo the required pre-employment investigation?
 Yes
 No


8.
The unofficial transcript(s) or official letter from the registrar's office MUST include the date your qualifying bachelor's or graduate degree was conferred, as well as the school's name and your identifying information. Applications will not be considered without this documentation. Are you able to meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. If, after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation, a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications and/or experience, you will be removed from consideration.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Program Analyst (Data Analytics) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes: (1) experience applying data analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature; (2) experience applying conventional methods to gather, analyze, and evaluate information concerning assigned processes, draw conclusions, and recommend appropriate action; and (3) applying analytical and evaluative techniques to the identification, consideration, and resolution of issues or problems of a procedural or factual nature.
 I have successfully completed a master’s or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B or J.D. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT - Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy and verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes, I verify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my rating may be lowered and/or I may be removed from further consideration of this position.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙