Position Title
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority Maintenance Worker (Trails)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
CAHN-26-13048074-FUL-BB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 31, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring Authority
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date. SF-50 cannot be accepted as proof of residence. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as the following counties: Eddy NM, Otero NM, Doña Ana NM, El Paso TX, Hudspeth TX, Culberson TX, Reeves TX.

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the National Park Service and the Maintenance Worker (Trails) WG-4749-7. Carefully read the job announcement for full details on how to apply. Read each question in this questionnaire carefully. Select only one response. If you select more than one response or leave a question blank, you may be found not qualified for the position.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Maintenance Worker (Trails), WG-4749-07 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 Independently perform difficult and complex work as a maintenance worker performing trail construction and maintenance projects such as water bars, rock steps, retaining walls, drainage structures, rip-rap tread, bridges, boardwalks, and signs. This experience includes extensive knowledge of carpentry, masonry, trail condition assessment, use of hand tools and equipment operation in a trail maintenance and construction capacity. Perform trails maintenance work without supervision. Instructed subordinates or peers in trail and trail equipment maintenance, and the proper and safe use of tools and equipment.
 Perform the full range of work on my own initiative as a maintenance worker performing trail construction and maintenance projects such as water bars, rock steps, retaining walls, drainage structures, rip-rap tread, bridges, boardwalks, and signs. This experience includes knowledge of carpentry, masonry, use of hand tools and equipment operation in a trail maintenance and construction capacity. Perform trails maintenance work without more than normal supervision.
 Perform the common work as a maintenance worker performing intermediate trail construction and maintenance projects such as water bars, rock steps, drainage structures and signs under normal supervision. This experience includes some knowledge of carpentry, masonry, use of hand tools in a trail maintenance and construction capacity. Perform trails maintenance work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level maintenance worker to make sure they are properly completed.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙