Position Title
IT Specialist (Systems Administration)
Agency
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Announcement Number
NOS-26-12992815-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 26, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of Commerce employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced definition of surplus or displaced  from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and 
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service from a Federal agency outside of the Department of Commerce that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Note: You are required to submit supporting documentation as proof of eligibility.

If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one (1) year ago.
 Yes
 No


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your experience performing the work of a IT Specialist (Systems Administration), ZP-2210-4 pay band or equivalent grade level (GS-13) in the Federal service.

 I have at least one full year (52 weeks) of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower pay band (ZP-3) or GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes all of the following: Identifying and recommending improvements to increase Information Technology (IT) performance and efficiency; Testing, troubleshooting, or maintaining Information Technology (IT) software and security systems; and Providing technical guidance or support to personnel on IT systems such as advising on policies or procedures or preparing standard operating procedures (SOPs). -AND- I have IT experience and/or training that demonstrates possession of the following four IT Competencies: (1) Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail; (2) Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services; (3) Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately; and (4) Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I do not possess the experience described above.


Assessment 2
1.
Identify the elements of Infrastructure as a service (IaaS):

 Application, Storage, Data, Application
 Data, Application, Middleware, Networking
 Data, Operating System, Applications, Middleware
 Operating System, Networking, Runtime, Middleware


2.
True or False: Cloud horizontal scaling refers to deployed resource are scaled out (manually or automatically).

 True
 False


3.
Identity the correct PowerShell function

 Invoke-Command executes commands remotely or concurrently across multiple computers
 Get-NetTCP lists every TCP connection on a Windows machine (local and remote endpoints, state, and the owning process ID)
 Get-NetFirewall queries Windows Firewall rules (by display name, profile, action, direction, and enabled state)
 Add-ADGroup used to add one or more users, groups, service accounts, or computers to an Active Directory group.


4.
Identify the Active Directory Group Policy Object processing order

 Local GPOs, Child OU-linked GPOs, OU-linked GPOs, Domain-linked GPOs, Site-linked GPOs
 Site-linked GPOs, Domain-linked GPOs, OU-linked GPOs, Child OU-linked GPOs, Local GPOs
 Local GPOs, Site-linked GPOs, Domain-linked GPOs, OU-linked GPOs, Child OU-linked GPOs
 Child OU-linked GPOs, OU-linked GPOs, Domain-linked GPOs, Site-linked GPOs, Local GPOs


5.
True or False: Microsoft Entra ID Conditional Access can evaluate multiple conditions to enforce access requirements. For example: evaluate the user's location, the user's device, and/or the application that the user is trying to access to determine if access is permitted.

 True
 False


6.
Identify the services provided by Entra ID:

 Devices management, Licenses management, Single sign-on, Application management
 Authentication, Devices management, single sign-on, Licenses management
 Management of applications, single sign-on, Management of licenses
 Authentication, Devices management, Application management, Single sign-on


7.
True or False: Microsoft Entra ID defines users as cloud identities, guest and external.

 True
 False


8.
Identify the AD GPO Administrative Templates components

 Computer-related settings, Software-related settings
 Computer-configuration, User-configuration
 Software-related settings, Windows-configuration
 Computer-configuration, Windows-configuration


9.
Identify the AD DS global catalog role

 In a single domain, global catalog contains all the attributes for each object in the forest
 In multiple-domain and multiple-site forests, limiting the number of domain controllers hosting the global catalog role to reduce the volume of replication traffic
 In a single domain, global catalog contains a partial copy of all the objects in a forest
 All of the above


10.
As an IT Specialist (Systems Administration), which action BEST demonstrates effective oversight of staff?

 Allowing staff to work independently without guidance
 Assigning work without follow-up
 Setting clear expectations, monitoring progress, and providing feedback
 Completing all tasks yourself


11.
Identify the key aspects of project management

 Defined scope, defined milestones, defined deliverables, defined team
 Defined scope, defined schedule, defined budget, defined stakeholders
 Defined scope, defined team, defined schedule, managed risks
 Defined scope, defined deliverables, managed risks, effective communication


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


12.
I certify that I did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence tool (such as a large language model) to complete the responses above. To the best of my knowledge, all information provided in my application is true and accurate. I affirm that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education. I understand that providing false or misleading information may result in disqualification from consideration or termination of employment if hired.

I further certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement, reviewed my responses to the eligibility questions for accuracy, and understand the requirements regarding supporting documentation, including what must be submitted and applicable deadlines.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙