Position Title
Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSV-13006209-26-JM Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 15, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following section is used to determine your eligibility for this vacancy. Your application must provide acceptable proof of your status. Please choose an answer for each of the following items to identify which of the following descriptions applies to you.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency.

MRTs (Coder) must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education:
Experience: One year of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records. OR,
Education: 
An associate's degree from an accredited college or university recognized by the U.S. Department of Education with a major field of study in health information technology/health information management, or a related degree with a minimum of 12 semester hours in health information technology/health information management (e.g., courses in medical terminology, anatomy and physiology, medical coding, and introduction to health records); OR,
Completion of an AHIMA approved coding program, or other intense coding training program of approximately one year or more that included courses in anatomy and physiology, medical terminology, basic ICD diagnostic/procedural, and basic CPT coding. The training program must have led to eligibility for coding certification/certification examination, and the sponsoring academic institution must have been accredited by a national U.S. Department of Education accreditor, or comparable international accrediting authority at the time the program was completed; OR,
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education are qualifying for meeting the basic requirements. The following educational/training substitutions are appropriate for combining education and creditable experience:
Six months of creditable experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, general understanding of medical coding and the health record, and one year above high school, with a minimum of 6 semester hours of health information technology courses.
Successful completion of a course for medical technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or hospital training obtained in a training program given by the Armed Forces or the U.S. Maritime Service, under close medical and professional supervision, may be substituted on a month-for-month basis for up to six months of experience provided the training program included courses in anatomy, physiology, and health record techniques and procedures. Also, requires six additional months of creditable experience that is paid or non-paid employment equivalent to a MRT (Coder).
Do you meet one of the requirements listed, choose witch one below?
 Yes, I meet one year of credible experience that indicates knowledge of medical terminology, anatomy, physiology, pathophysiology, medical coding, and the structure and format of a health records.
 Yes, I meet Education requirement (transcript required)
 Yes, I meet Experience/Education combination requirement (transcript required)
 No, I do not meet any experience, education or experience and education combination requirements.


3.
Certification: Persons hired or reassigned to MRT (Coder) positions in the GS-0675 series in VHA must have either (1), (2), or (3) below:
 Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?
 Yes, I have Apprentice/Associate Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Yes, I have Mastery Level Certification through AHIMA or AAPC.
 Yes, I have Clinical Documentation Improvement Certification through AHIMA or ACDIS.
 No, I do not meet certification requirement described above.



GRADE REQUIREMENTS

In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met when determining the grade of candidates. The following section is used to determine your eligibility for this vacancy. Your application must provide acceptable proof of your experience. Please choose A (Yes) or B (No) for each of the following items to identify which of the following descriptions applies to you.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Supervisory Medical Records Technician (Coder), GS-10

Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.

Certification: Employees at this level must have a mastery level certification.

In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
Ability to perform a full range of supervisory duties, to include recommending awards, approving leave, evaluating work, resolving staff issues, and assigning, planning, and coordinating work to ensure duties are completed in an accurate and timely fashion.
Advanced knowledge of current coding classification systems such as ICD, CPT, and HCPCS for the subspecialty being assigned (outpatient, inpatient, outpatient and inpatient combined).
Ability to provide or coordinate staff development and training.
Leadership and managerial skills, including skill in interpersonal relations and conflict resolution to deal with employees, team leaders, and managers.
Ability to collect and analyze data, identify trends, and present results in various formats.
Do you meet the experience, certificate requirement and can fully demonstrate the KSAs as described above?
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
-Job title-Month & Year start/end dates (e.g. June 2016 to April 2018)
-Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
-Duties (be as detailed as possible)
-Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held.
Failure to provide this information will result in resume disqualification and non- referral.
 
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all questions by addressing your work experience in detail.
 
Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. 5 Tips for Writing a Federal Resume - FederalPay.org


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙