Position Title
Motor Vehicle Operator-Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-570308-12869274-SJB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jan 20, 2026 to Feb 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience or training needed to qualify for a MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR (FORKLIFT OPERATOR), WG-5703-08, positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that most clearly and accurately describes your ability to perform the duties of this position, MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR (FORKLIFT OPERATOR), WG-5703-08, without more than normal supervision. (For a complete description of the required duties, see the DUTIES section of this announcement.
 I do not have the experience or the ability to do this line of work.
 I have vocational training or I have completed an apprenticeship in this line of work.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR (FORKLIFT OPERATOR), WG-5703-08, under close supervision. I have limited experience in: operating and performing operator maintenance on one or more gasoline, diesel, or electric powered wheeled large vehicles with heavy loads and limited maneuverability; motor vehicles include platform trucks, van trucks, stake trucks, dump trucks, ambulances or patient transport vehicles, passenger shuttle vans, and cargo vans with dual braking systems and special purpose equipment which typically have an approximate gross vehicle weight of up to32,000 pounds; operate vehicles to transport supplies, materials equipment, and/or tools, and drive over rough, uneven terrain or unimproved roads and couple/uncouple tractors and trailers and connect/disconnect air brakes and electrical lines; load and arrange cargo properly onto the vehicle using appropriate tie-downs such as chains, binders, or straps. This type of work has only been completed under close supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the work of a MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR (FORKLIFT OPERATOR), WG-5703-08, under limited supervision. I have the experience and ability to: operate one or more gasoline, diesel, or electric powered wheeled large vehicles with heavy loads and limited maneuverability; motor vehicles including platform trucks, van trucks, fuel trucks, stake trucks, dump trucks, and trash removal trucks with dual braking systems and special purpose equipment which typically have an approximate gross vehicle weight of 32,000 pounds or more; operate vehicles to transport supplies, materials equipment, and/or tools, and drive over rough, uneven terrain or unimproved roads, and interstates, exercising caution when backing to load/unload at docks, or ramps; knowledge of height, weight, width, and length of the vehicle in order to judge overhead and side clearance, turning radius, braking distance, and safe distance to be maintained from other vehicles; apply this knowledge to maneuver vehicle in heavy traffic and in close quarters such as around parked aircraft or backing to ramps, docks, or similar locations and in responding to hand signals from spotters; load and arrange cargo properly onto the vehicle using appropriate tie-downs such as chains, binders, or straps. On routine assignments, I perform work independently.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR (FORKLIFT OPERATOR), WG-5703-08, and I am consulted by other workers because of my expertise and ability to: operate and perform operator maintenance on gasoline, diesel, or electric powered wheeled large vehicles with heavy loads and limited maneuverability; motor vehicles include straight-in-line trucks with dual braking systems and special purpose equipment which typically have an approximate gross vehicle weight of more than 32,000 pounds; operate truck tractors with semi-trailers or full trailers, and motor coaches; maneuver vehicles within close tolerances when driving and backing over uneven ground and in narrow or congested areas, between buildings and other vehicles, between parked aircraft and when positioning vehicles at loading docks; operate vehicles on interstate highways, winding roads, and steep grades and manipulate the dual braking system to prevent the semi-trailer or trailer from jackknifing; operate one or more electric, LPG, or diesel powered fork lift trucks to facilitate loading and unloading duties with a high degree of independence; load and arrange cargo properly onto the vehicle using appropriate tie-downs such as chains, binders, or straps; knowledge of federal, state, and local safety and traffic rules and regulations for operating vehicles. I am considered an expert in this field.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training. Please select only one letter for each item. Failure to respond to the assessment questionnaire will result in an ineligible rating.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙