Position Title
AIRCRAFT MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
IN-13046726-AR-26-097 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Guard Information
1.
Are you currently an ON-BOARD Title 32 or Title 5 (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) technician with the Indiana Army National Guard?
 Yes, I am currently an ON-BOARD Title 32 or Title 5 (Tenure 1, 2 or 3) technician with the Indiana Army National Guard.
 No, I am not.


2.
Are you currently within the military grades/ranks of E5 through E9, or WO1 through CW4?
 Yes, I am within the grades/ranks listed above.
 No, I am not within the grades/ranks listed above.


3.
Prior to appointment, individuals will undergo a background check to validate suitability for employment with the federal government as permitted by law. Items checked include, but are not limited to all criminal history record information, employment history, education and fiscal accountability/responsibility. IAW 5 CFR 302.203, the following, among others, may be included as disqualifying reasons: (1) Dismissal from employment for delinquency or misconduct; (2) Criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; (3) Intentional false statement or deception or fraud in examination or appointment; (4) Habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; (5) Reasonable doubt as to the loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States; (6) Any legal or other disqualification which makes the individual unfit for service; or (7) Lack of United States citizenship.
 I give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check on me.
 I do not give my permission for the Indiana National Guard to conduct a background check and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


4.
*PLEASE READ THIS CAREFULLY AS THE FOLLOWING HAS CHANGED
Indiana National Guard (INNG) Federal Technicians will wait 36 months after being selected for a new position before applying for another position within the INNG. If you meet the requirements listed below, you will need to submit a signed Exception to Policy (ETP) memorandum with your application to be considered for the position. If you have questions about applicability, send an email explaining your situation to the HRO Staffing inbox listed below.
If you are a Tenure 0 Temporary employee (your position has a not-to-exceed date), you do not need an ETP memo, you will select No below and proceed with your application.
Did you become a new employee through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months?
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, continue reading.
Did you receive a promotion, reassignment, conversion (to tenure 1, 2, or 3), or a grade reduction through a USAJobs announcement within the last 36 months? This does not include receiving a temporary promotion.
If yes, you will need an ETP memo. Follow the instructions below.
If no, select No below and proceed with your application.
If you require an ETP memorandum, you can download the template here: https://armyeitaas.sharepoint-mil.us/sites/NGIN-J1HR/SitePages/Technician-Staffing.aspx
The memorandum will be written by you, the employee, and signed by your supervisory chain up to the Director level. Directors and Supervisors will submit the signed memorandum for final review to the HRO Staffing inbox: ng.in.inarng.mbx.hro-staffing-section@army.mil
The Human Resources Officer (HRO) is the final approval for all ETP waivers. If approved, the memorandum will be returned to you and then submitted with your application.
 Yes, this applies to me, and I have submitted my ETP memo signed by the HRO.
 No, this does not apply to me.


5.
Do you have any relatives (as defined below by 5 USC 3110) who are employed with the Indiana National Guard?

Per 5 USC 3110, A public official may not appoint, employ, promote, advance, or advocate for appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement, in or to a civilian position in the agency in which he is serving or over which he exercises jurisdiction or control any individual who is a relative of the public official. An individual may not be appointed, employed, promoted, or advanced in or to a civilian position in an agency if such appointment, employment, promotion, or advancement has been advocated by a public official, serving in or exercising jurisdiction or control over the agency, who is a relative of the individual. Relative is defined as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

Please list relatives names in narrative box below.


6.
Do any of the following statuses apply to you?
 I have retired from Active Duty or the Active Guard Reserve.
 I am planning my Active Duty or AGR retirement.
 I have retired from Federal Employment or Civil Service.
 None of these apply to me, I have not retired from Active Duty Military or Federal Government employment


Assessment 1
Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Does your resume support the General Experience criteria below?

 Experience or training that has provided the candidate with the skill to remove and replace aircraft parts, accessories, and components, and to make adjustments and settings according to established specifications. Must be skilled in the use of hand tools and test equipment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Does your resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below?
 Experience or training installing, adjusting, aligning, troubleshooting, and functionally testing the various major and minor mechanical and pneudraulic systems on an aircraft during overhaul or modification. Experience coordinating the work of other mechanics, and scheduling maintenance to ensure completion of critical actions and optimum workflow. Must have the ability to instruct lower graded mechanics, military and other personnel in the disassembly and re-assembly of crash damaged engines, transmissions, gearboxes, hydraulic components, and fuel controls sufficient for the exhibit to be returned to its shipping container.  In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.
 Yes
 No


Please read and respond to all the questions below. For each Competency / Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's), choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.



For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below.


3.
Experience preparing for and participating in various types of readiness evaluations, inspections, mobilization and command support exercises.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


4.
Experience planning and scheduling specific work assignments on a daily or project-to-project basis within specified time requirements.
 I have no experience in performing this work behavior, but I am willing to learn.
 I have limited experience in performing this work behavior. I have had exposure to this work behavior but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it at a proficient level.
 I have experience performing this work behavior across routine or predictable situations with minimal supervision or guidance.
 I have performed this work behavior independently across a wide range of situations. I have assisted others in carrying out this work behavior. I seek guidance in carrying out this work behavior only in unusually complex situations.
 I am considered an expert in carrying out this work behavior. I advise and instruct others in carrying out this work behavior on a regular basis. I am consulted by my colleagues and/or supervisors to carry out this work behavior in unusually complex situations.


For each knowledge area, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of knowledge using the scale below.


5.
Experience providing general instructions, standard procedures, overall priorities and policies and relying upon the incumbent to control work operations and accomplish an adequate quantity and quality of work
 I have no knowledge of this area.
 I have the knowledge to understand general issues and/or contribute opinions during a casual conversation concerning topics in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the high school level or train novices about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the college undergraduate level or to train entry-level professionals about issues in this area.
 I have the knowledge to teach at the graduate level or to train professionals in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙