Position Title
Crane Operator
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13083290-DHA
Open Period
Oct 06, 2026 to Oct 20, 2026
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)
MQ Only RH 407684 13083290 DHA
.
Thank you for your interest in a Crane Operator, WY-5752-11 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.
1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Crane Operator duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex duties of a Crane Operator. I am able to operate truck-mounted, barge-mounted, and permanently placed 75-ton stiff-leg cranes to load or unload trucks and floating equipment, and to remove or place materials and equipment in connection with lock maintenance. I am able to make 60-foot blind lifts and determine boom angles. I am able to perform necessary rigging and minor maintenance. I am able to serve as the operator on a two-man 20 by 50-foot derrick barge. I am able to inspect hoisting equipment and cables for condition and safety. I possess a current National Crane Operator Category 1 Certification (e.g., NCCCO or OECP). I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform a full range of duties of a Crane Operator. I am able to operate a variety of cranes including truck and barge-mounted and a permanently placed 75-ton stiff-leg crane to load or unload trucks, floating equipment, remove debris from inland waters, and to dry dock boats and barges. I am able to determine the proper boom angles. I am able to perform rigging and minor maintenance. I am able to inspect hoisting equipment and cables for condition and safety. I possess a current National Crane Operator Category 1 Certification (e.g., NCCCO or OECP). I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common duties of a Crane Operator. I am able to operate a truck or barge-mounted crane or a permanently placed 75-ton stiff-leg crane in open areas well within lift capacity to perform one or more of the following: load and unload trucks, floating equipment, remove debris from inland waters, and/or to dry dock boats and barges. I am able to perform rigging and routine preventative maintenance on cranes. I possess a current National Crane Operator Category 1 Certification (e.g., NCCCO or OECP). I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple, limited crane operations and related assignments by assisting higher-graded crane operators. I am able to perform some basic preventive maintenance of machinery and equipment. I do not currently possess a National Crane Operator Category 1 Certification (e.g., NCCCO or OECP).
 I do not possess the abilities or the required Category 1 Crane Certification described above.
2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.
