Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Bureau of Reclamation
Announcement Number
BOR-6022-26-FS-001(DE) Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 03, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position with ICTAP eligibility?

 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Billings, MT
 B. McCook, NE


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


3.
Certificates of Eligible Applicants for this position may be shared with other Federal agencies at their request. This may include other Offices within the Bureau of Reclamation, other Bureaus within the Department of the Interior, and/or other Federal agencies. If your information is shared with another office/bureau/agency, you will be notified. Do you authorize the sharing of your information with other Federal agencies? If you respond "No" to this question, your information will not be shared and you will not be considered for employment by the requesting agency.
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


8.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this vacancy. Please select the response that best reflects how you meet the qualification requirements for this position.


1.
GS-07: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and/or experience.

 I possess at least one full year of graduate level education that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Education must be related to the nature of the position to qualify. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 Superior Academic Achievement- I meet 1 of the following: In the upper one-third of my graduating class; OR a GPA of 3.0 or higher out of 4.0, as recorded on official transcript, or based on courses completed during final 2 years of curriculum; OR a GPA of 3.5 or higher out of 4.0, based on average of required courses completed in major or required courses in major completed during the final 2 years of curriculum. Education must be related to the nature of the position to qualify. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level as described in the qualification section of the vacancy announcement.
 I possess a combination of graduate education and experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Education must be related to the nature of the position to qualify. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
GS-09: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and/or experience.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level as described in the qualification section of the vacancy announcement.
 I possess 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or master's or equivalent graduate degree that has equipped me to perform the duties of this position. Education must be related to the nature of the position to qualify. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I possess a combination of graduate level education as described above, beyond the first year of progressive graduate study, and appropriate professional experience that together meet the qualification requirements for this position. Education must be related to the nature of the position to qualify. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


3.
GS-11: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and/or experience.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level as described in the qualification section of the vacancy announcement.
 I possess three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D., or possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or LL.M if related, in Business or Finance or a directly related field that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I possess a combination of specialized experience and graduate education as outlined above which, in combination, equals 100% of the requirement. Education must be related to the nature of the position to qualify. Transcripts must be provided to verify education. (Unofficial Okay)
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙