Position Title
FUL - Maintenance Worker
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
FF05-26-13023075-FUL-EP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 28, 2026 to Oct 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


2.
If selected, you are required to obtain and successfully pass a pre-employment physical examination by a licensed physician certifying to your ability to perform the duties of the position. This is not required if a comparable examination was required for placement in your current position and was completed within the last year; however, verifiable documentation of a comparable physical is required. Periodic (annual or biennial) physical examinations are required to be successfully passed for continued employment. Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical as described above as part of your employment?
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local Hiring is defined as 50 miles from the job announcement location(s).
Location(s): South Kingstown, RI

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of the additional assessment(s) required for this position.

If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible' or 'not qualified'. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-7, position. Please answer the following questions pertaining to your to you experience and qualifications.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
I possess or I understand I must posses and maintain a valid Commercial Driver's License Class A (CDL) within six months of employment.
 Yes
 No


The ability to do the work without normal supervision (Screen Out).


2.
From the descriptions below, select the one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07 position.

Read all of the responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank- you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered ineligible and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have experience that demonstrates the ability of performing duties as a working member of the group. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07 tasks to include: Implementing instructions from supervisor and working independent of others; Provides status of in-process work assignments and informs supervisor on needs required to complete work and meet deadlines; Answers workers questions and obtained needed information; Cares for common power and hand tools as well as work with the materials associated with the trades (electrical, plumbing, carpentry, painting); Utilizes knowledge and skills in several trades and crafts(electrical, plumbing, carpentry, painting); Works from sketches, work orders, basic blueprints, and instructions, which are complete in terms of type of job required and materials and methods to be used; Operates trucks equipped with snow plows and spreader boxers, including the ability to install and remove independently; Operates multi-lever controlled equipment such as front-end loaders, skid steers, and excavators to manipulate and load materials; Operates 1 and 2 Ton Trucks & Dump Trucks equipped with and without trailered loads.
 I have experience that demonstrates the ability to teach others and work independent and troubleshoot complicated work tasks actively performs duties as a working member of the work group. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07 tasks listed.
 I have limited experience performing the tasks related to the Maintenance Worker, WG-4749-07. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex tasks listed in (A) above under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Maintenance Mechanic who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to insure that they are properly performed.
 I have little to no experience performing the most difficult tasks of a Maintenance Worker WG-4749-07, however I am willing to learn. I am able to perform the most difficult and complex tasks listed in above under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level Maintenance Mechanic who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to insure that they are properly performed.
 I have no experience performing this position nor do I meet the journeyman level experience in the trades.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙