Position Title
Public Notice - Engineering (Direct Hire)
Agency
John C. Stennis Space Center
Announcement Number
SSC-26-DE-13034394-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from NASA or any other federal agency?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information on qualifying conditions for ICTAP or CTAP you may go to:The Employee's Guide to Career Transition (opm.gov)

If you answer yes to this question, you must submit the following supporting documentation:
a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your most recent performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit your most recent performance appraisal), AND
your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11
12
13
14


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0850 - Electrical Engineering
 B. 0861 - Aerospace Engineering


Federal Employment Information
1.

In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


2.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you received a federal Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)?
(If you have not been employed by the federal government within the past 5 years, select "No.")

If you previously received a VSIP and are unsure of the exact date, please refer to your SF-50 Notification of Personnel Action for your separation.

Block 6-A should display 825
Block 6-B should read Separation Incentive
Block 4 will display the effective date of the VSIP
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
In this questionnaire, please select the statement for each item that best describes your qualifications for the position. Please ensure the information in your resume matches your responses to the questions. Your application materials, including transcripts, must support your responses to this questionnaire.


1.
Please select the statement below that best describes how you meet the Basic Education and/or Experience Requirements for this position as described in the "Education" section of the announcement.
 I have completed a bachelor's or graduate degree with a major in engineering from a college or university that has at least one ABET accredited engineering program.
 I have completed a bachelor's or graduate degree in an accredited college or university with a major in life science, mathematics, physical science, or other fields of science.
 I have completed a bachelor's degree in an accredited college or university with a major in computer science that included 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours of course work in any combination of mathematics, statistics, and computer science, AND that provided (1) at least 15 semester hours or 22.5 quarter hours in mathematics and statistics courses that included differential and integral calculus, and (2) in-depth knowledge of theoretical and practical applications of computer science, including digital computer system architecture and system software organization, the representation and transformation of information structures, and the theoretical models for such representations and transformations.
 I have completed a bachelor’s or graduate degree in an accredited college or university with a major in social science, medical, or other fields directly related to the duties of the position.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.
 I have completed a graduate degree in an accredited college or university with a major in computer science.
 I do not fully meet any of the basic education requirements for the position, but I do have exceptional relevant experience that clearly demonstrates significant full performance-level achievement directly related to the duties of the position.
 I do not fully meet any of the basic education or experience requirements for the position, but I do have a combination of education and experience that clearly demonstrates significant full performance-level achievement directly related to the duties of the position.


2.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-07 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-05 level in the Federal service that included: Performing routine safety, quality, or engineering support tasks under close supervision; collecting data, maintaining records, or preparing basic technical documentation in support of engineering projects or programs.
 I have completed 1 full academic year of graduate level education with a major in a directly related field.
 I meet at least one of the following criteria: (1) I am in the upper third of my class based on completed college work at the time of submitting this application. (2) I have a grade point average (GPA) of 2.90 or better on a 4.0 scale that is based on either all completed college work at the time of application OR all college courses completed during the last 2 years of my undergraduate curriculum. (3) I have a grade average of B+ (3.5 on a 4.0 scale) or better in a major required for the position that is based on either the average of all completed college work in my major at the time of submitting this application OR the average of all college courses completed in my major during the last 2 years of my undergraduate curriculum. (4) I have been elected to membership in one of the national honorary scholastic societies that meets the minimum requirements of the Association of College Honor Societies and is NOT a freshman honor society. (5) I have completed 12 months of student trainee experience under the Pathways Internship Program that included at least one work period of 2 months or 320 hours equivalent to the GS-05 grade level OR at least 15 months of appropriate student trainee experience that included one work period of 2 months or 320 hours equivalent to the GS-04 grade level. (6) I completed a designated 5-year program of study OR at least 160 semester hours or 240 quarter hours leading to a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university. (7) I have a professional engineering degree AND up to 12 months of experience as a technician or technologist equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level. (8) I completed all requirements for two bachelor's degrees AND one of the degrees was in a science or engineering field directly related to the position. (9) I have six months of directly related specialized experience or training that included 3 months of experience after my junior year of college, AND all of my experience was obtained on a part-time or intermittent basis and may have been paid or unpaid. (10) I have received honors or elective positions indicating superior leadership outside of my academic setting AND my academic standing is in the upper half of my graduating class. (11) I have established a pattern of completing courses that included unusual preparatory value or were directly related to the position. (12) I have creative research aptitude or special talent for NASA scientific or engineering work as demonstrated by evidence obtained and documented by NASA in certifications from college professors, officials, standardized questionnaires, or other similar verification techniques.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A and B above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


3.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-09 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 level in the Federal service that included: Performing safety, quality, or engineering analysis, design, test, or evaluation on assigned systems or components; applying engineering principles to solve technical problems under supervision; preparing technical documentation in support of engineering projects or program requirements.
 I have completed all requirements for a master's or equivalent graduate degree with a major in a directly related field.
 I have completed 2 full academic years of graduate level education with a major in a directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


4.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your education and/or experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-11 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included: Conducting safety, quality, or engineering analysis, design, test, or evaluation; applying professional engineering judgment with limited supervision; producing technical reports and recommendations.
 I have completed all requirements for a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree with a major in a directly related field.
 I have completed 3 full academic years of graduate level education with a major in a directly related field.
 I have an equivalent combination of experience and education as described in A, B, and C above.
 I do not have the education or experience described above.


5.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-12 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service that included: Conducting complex safety, quality, or engineering work; serving as technical authority on moderately complex systems; leading engineering projects; integrating multi-discipline technical requirements.
 I do not have the experience described above.


6.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-13 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service that included: Leading safety, quality, or engineering programs or technical projects; serving as recognized technical authority on complex systems; developing engineering solutions.
 I do not have the experience described above.


7.
Please select the statement below that best describes how your experience meets the requirements for this position at the GS-14 level as described in the "Qualifications" section of the announcement.
 I have 1 year of directly related specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service that included: Providing senior safety, quality, or engineering technical leadership; directing multi-disciplinary programs; serving as expert in the applicable discipline; advising senior officials on complex technical and programmatic matters.
 I do not have the experience described above.


Certification


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and that all responses to assessment questions and application materials are entirely my own work. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙