Position Title
Security Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZO-13001679-26-TC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 09, 2026 to Jul 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Marion, IL
 B. Topeka, KS


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

REQUIREMENT- An SF-50 showing your eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Please submit your most recent (within 12 months of the closing date of this announcement) NON-AWARD, SF-50 must be uploaded with your 2 page resume.



Instructions: All applicants must meet one of the following. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position.



1.
GS-5

Specialized Experience: 
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-04 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to, experience in an office, business or administration requiring a broad working knowledge of standard and non-standard administrative/clerical assignments, specific subject matters, procedures, and internal processes related to the collection, organization, and/or tracking of information; monitor status of items from initiation to completion, compiling and assembling basic data for reports. The work would require a broad knowledge of organizational regulations, policies, and procedures to accomplish tasks that involved different steps processes, and methods applicable to each assignment; with standard work and non-reoccurring problems addressed. OR,

Education:
EDUCATION SUBSTITUTION (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED): Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have successfully completed 4 years above high school . This education must have equipped you with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position at this grade level.  OR,

Combination:
Possess an equivalent combination of specialized experience and post high school education as described above that demonstrates my ability to perform the duties of this position. For the GS-05, only education in excess of 60 semester hours (2 years) is creditable.

NOTE: Your resume should reflect and demonstrate the specialized experience required for the position. 

NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Education cannot be credited without documentation .
 EXPERIENCE: I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-4 level that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSA's) to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the position to be filled. My resume details my specialized experience which may include but is not limited to the following: experience in an office, business or administration requiring a broad working knowledge of standard and non-standard administrative/clerical assignments, specific subject matters, procedures, and internal processes related to the collection, organization, and/or tracking of information; monitor status of items from initiation to completion, compiling and assembling basic data for reports. The work would require a broad knowledge of organizational regulations, policies, and procedures to accomplish tasks that involved different steps processes, and methods applicable to each assignment; with standard work and non-reoccurring problems addressed. This experience is detailed in my resume.
 SUBSTITUTION OF EDUCATION FOR EXPERIENCE: I have successfully completed a 4-year course of study above high school. This education equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform the duties of the position at this grade level.
 COMBINATION OF EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: I have equivalent combinations of creditable experience and education. Equivalent combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and experience are also qualifying. Only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirements. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My education/experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GS-6

Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: experience in an office, business or organizational setting focused on, or related to, the administration of personnel security programs;  experience with, and comprehensive knowledge of, regulations, policies, procedures needed to follow established protocol and processes; assignments and tasks would have included a wide variety of items and required consideration of different steps and processes required to accomplish the task. The work would have utilized standardized forms and information needed to issue standardized security cards, identification cards, or physical access cards for the organization. It may include experience with entering, reviewing, correcting personal security/privacy information in automated systems; maintain filing systems and records related to the organizational security program, researching and compiling data for various reports.
 EXPERIENCE: I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-05 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. My resume details specialized experience which may include but are not limited to: experience in an office, business or organizational setting focused on, or related to, the administration of personnel security programs; experience with, and comprehensive knowledge of, regulations, policies, procedures needed to follow established protocol and processes; assignments and tasks would have included a wide variety of items and required consideration of different steps and processes required to accomplish the task. My experience may include details where work would have utilized standardized forms and information needed to issue standardized security cards, identification cards, or physical access cards for the organization. It may include experience with entering, reviewing, correcting personal security/privacy information in automated systems; maintain filing systems and records related to the organizational security program, researching and compiling data for various reports. This experience is detailed in my resume.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience equivalent to one year at the GS-5 level.


3.
GS-7

Specialized Experience: You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-06 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Examples of specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Collecting and verifying appropriate background security information need to initiating, reviewing, and approving background cases related to the completion of suitability investigations; complete reports, utilize and maintain various computer databases associated with the processing of background investigations, interpreting position risks sensitivity levels, and obtaining electronic fingerprints required for pre-employment processes. The work would require a comprehensive and thorough knowledge of regulations, polices, procedures, and guidance that governs a Personnel Security Program, Personal Identification Verification Program or similar organizational system was used throughout the entire organization, and included (Home Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12. Skilled in oral communication in order to provide technical advice and guidance to customers and have the ability to work effectively while conducting audits, technical reviews, and communicating with various law enforcement agencies and courts to accomplish assigned tasks.
 EXPERIENCE: I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade GS-06 in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. My resume details the specialized experience which may include but are not limited to: Collecting and verifying appropriate background security information need to initiating, reviewing, and approving background cases related to the completion of suitability investigations; complete reports, utilize and maintain various computer databases associated with the processing of background investigations, interpreting position risks sensitivity levels, and obtaining electronic fingerprints required for pre-employment processes. The work would require a comprehensive and thorough knowledge of regulations, polices, procedures, and guidance that governs a Personnel Security Program, Personal Identification Verification Program or similar organizational system was used throughout the entire organization, and included (Home Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12. I am skilled in oral communication in order to provide technical advice and guidance to customers and have the ability to work effectively while conducting audits, technical reviews, and communicating with various law enforcement agencies and courts to accomplish assigned tasks. This experience is detailed in my resume.
 I do not possess the required specialized experience equivalent to one year at the GS-6 level.


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2021) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

REQUIREMENT- An SF-50 showing your eligibility must be submitted with your application materials. Please submit your most recent (within 12 months of the closing date of this announcement) NON-AWARD, SF-50 must be uploaded with your 2 page resume.

Transcript Reminder - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

Time-In-Grade Reminder- Applicants who are current Federal employees of VISN 15 and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements. Please note that more than one SF-50 may be required to establish Time In Grade.




 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙