Position Title
Fire Protection Specialist
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
WFSMP-26-13024038-LS-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 10, 2026 to Aug 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
To claim eligibility as a 30% or more disabled veteran, please confirm that you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions and:
You have a rating by the Department of Veterans Affairs showing a compensable service-connected disability of 30% or more; OR
You are retired from active military service with a service-connected disability rating of 30% or more.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include: 
A copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service; AND
A copy of your disability letter which includes the combined service connected disability percentage rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service; AND
The Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, SF-15.
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the 30% disabled veterans hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


3.
Military Spouse: 
To claim Military Spouse eligibility under 5 CFR 315.612, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority, and you are one of the following:
Active-Duty Spouse: Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is serving on active duty? OR
Based on 100% Disability: Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100 percent at the time of retirement or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs? OR
Based on Service Member's Death: Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit the following documents:
Active-Duty Spouse: You must submit a copy of your spouse's active military orders and a copy of the marriage certificate. 
Based on 100% Disability: You must submit the Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service, etc.); and a copy of the marriage certificate. 
Based on Service Member's Death: You must submit the Standard Form 15 and all supporting documentation identified on that document (e.g., Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service; death certificate and documentation identifying marital status at the time of death (e.g. copy of the marriage certificate). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information regarding Military Spouse, see the USAJOBS Help Center - Military spouses.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Military Spouse?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee who is considered surplus or displaced from the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm: 
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of your current position; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in the agency posting this job announcement with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


5.
Certain Former Overseas Employees: 
To claim Family of Overseas Employees eligibility, please confirm you wish to be considered under this authority, and you are one of the following: 

Were you employed overseas as an Appropriated Fund employee AND did you: 
• complete 52 weeks of creditable overseas service in an appropriated fund position(s) as a family member during the time you accompanied a sponsor officially assigned to an overseas area; AND, 
• receive a fully successful or better (or equivalent) performance rating; AND, 
• return to the United States to resume residence less than 3 years ago? 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders and performance appraisal. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Help Center - Family of overseas employees.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Certain Former Overseas Employees?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you currently employed as a Federal civilian employee with a career or career-conditional appointment (Tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) who holds/has held the same or lower grade level with lower promotion potential than the position being announced?

OR

Were you formerly employed as a Federal civilian employee on a permanent competitive appointment or did you obtain career-conditional status (and are within 3 years of the date of separation or are a preference eligible) AND you held the same or lower grade level with lower promotion potential than the position being announced?

If eligible, submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.

Your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect career or career-conditional (Tenure 1 or 2 in block 24) AND status in the competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive Reinstatement/Reassignment/Transfer/Promotion?
 Yes
 No


7.
To claim eligibility under Foreign Service Employees eligibility please confirm:

Have you completed at least 1 year of continuous service immediately before separation from one or more nontemporary Foreign Service appointments  ; AND, your separation from a Foreign Service career-type appointment occurred in the last 3 years (individuals entitled to veteran's preference do not need to meet this 3-year requirement)?

OR

Have you completed at least 3 years of substantially continuous service under one or more nontemporary appointments in the Foreign Service immediately before separation from an unlimited, career-type appointment in that Service?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF- 50) reflecting your nontemporary status. If you are outside of the 3-year requirement but are entitled to veteran's preference, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information please go to: Appointment Foreign Service Employees

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Foreign Service Employee?
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a former member of the PLC between the ages of 16 and 30, who has served the time required for completing a PLC project carried out on Federal land within the preceding 2 years (an individuals eligibility for NCE under this authority shall not exceed 2 years after completion of his/her last PLC project), and
Served as a qualified youth on an appropriate conservation project completing a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service that included at least 120 hours through the PLC, and
Meet OPM qualification standards and any other qualification requirement(s) stated in this vacancy announcement for the position in which you are applying.

To verify your eligibility, you must include a copy of the appropriate Certificate of Eligibility (signed/certified by the PLC member's last supervisor or a DOI agency Youth Program Office coordinator) and the completed signed/certified PLC Participant Work Hours Verification Form for noncompetitive hiring with your application.  This certificate will serve as proof that the former PLC member has met all necessary service requirements for noncompetitive hiring as stated in Public Law (P.L.) 109-154.

Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.

For more information, review the Department of the Interior PLC Hiring Authority Personnel Bulletin.

Are you eligible for non-competitive hire under the PLC authority?
 Yes
 No


9.
To claim eligibility under the Schedule A hiring authority for Individuals with Disabilities, please confirm you have a qualifying severe physical, psychiatric or mental disability.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit appropriate medical documentation (such as a letter signed by a licensed medical professional or licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist) specifying that you are eligible to apply using the Schedule A hiring authority.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  For more information on hiring Individuals with Disabilities, review the resources in the USAJOBS Individuals with Disabilities resources.

Are you eligible under the Schedule A, Individuals with Disabilities hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a current or former federal employee considered displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.   To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency posting this job announcement?
 Yes
 No


11.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance e (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who meets one of the eligibility requirements listed below?
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? OR 
You are the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating of 100% at the time of retirement; or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100% from the Department of Veterans Affairs. OR
You are the widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces who was killed while in active duty (it does not have to be combat related) and you have not remarried?
Are you eligible under the Military Spouse hiring authority?
 Yes
 No


13.
Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past twelve months? -OR

Are you a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who has completed your service within the past 36 months and are requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility due to your military service, status as a full-time student or other experience related to this position? -OR

???????Are you a current or former Peace Corps employee who has completed at least 36 months of continuous service and has been separated from the Peace Corps for less than three years?

???????To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your description of service or other proof of non-competitive eligibility. If you are a former Peace Corps volunteer or VISTA member who is requesting an extension of your non-competitive eligibility, please also provide the necessary documentation to support your request.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment under National Service (Peace Corps and VISTA) eligibility?
 Yes
 No


14.
Are you a current Federal employee who holds or has previously held a non-temporary career or career-conditional position in the competitive service with equal or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
Career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).-OR-Are you a former Federal employee who previously held a non-temporary career or career-conditional position in the competitive service with equal or higher promotion potential as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect.
Career status (Tenure 1) or career-conditional status (Tenure 2).  If you have career-conditional status you must have separated within the last three years OR have veteran's preference.
Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
OR

Are you a former Federal employee who previously held a career or career-conditional position in the competitive service, separated from the Federal Government over a year ago, and your last performance rating on record as a Federal employee was at least Fully Successful (or equivalent)?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your separation Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status AND your last Federal performance appraisal plan.Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect
Career status (Tenure 1) or career-conditional status (Tenure 2). If you have career-conditional status you must have separated within the last three years OR have veteran's preference.
Your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).

Your last Federal performance appraisal plan must reflect:
Rating of Fully Successful (or equivalent)

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Non-competitive Reinstatement/Reassignment/Transfer/Re-Promotion?
 Yes
 No


15.
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management and current with? 
Tennessee Valley Authority
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs-Employees who occupy medical or medical-related positions and were appointed under 38 U.S.C. 7401(1) or (3) [formerly 38 U.S.C. 4104(1) and (3)].
Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) employees of the Department of Defense
Federal Aviation Administration
Corporation for National and Community Service
Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration
The Department of Defense (The Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System) Agreement
 OR Are you an Employee under Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated By U.S. Office of Personnel Management; or, another authority which grants non-competitive eligibility? 
Postal Career Service Employees
Postal Rate Commission Employees
Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employees
Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employees
 For more information please review: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=InterchangeAgreementsWithOtherMeritSystems To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) reflecting your status.

Do you wish to be considered for appointment under the OPM Interchange Agreement and Special Authorities?
 Yes
 No


16.
Former Public Lands Corps Member
To claim eligibility under the Public Lands Corps (PLC) Hiring Authority, Public Law 109-154; please confirm:
You are you a former member of the PLC.
The completion of your last PLC project was within the last two years.
You served a minimum of 640 hours of satisfactory service on appropriate conservation projects and at least 120 hours served on a project utilizing the PLC legal authority.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation outlining the above. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review the Department of the Interior PLC Hiring Authority Personnel Bulletin. 

Are you eligible for non-competitive hire under the PLC authority?
 Yes
 No


17.
Special Hiring Authorities and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Interchange Agreement
Do you meet any of the non-competitive eligibilities listed below?
Are you a current Excepted Service employee of a Federal Agency that has a valid interchange agreement with the Office of Personnel Management? 
Be currently serving under an appointment without time limit in another merit system or have been involuntarily separated from such appointment without personal cause within the preceding year; AND
Be currently serving in or have been involuntarily separated from a position covered by an interchange agreement (some agreements do not cover all positions of the other merit systems); AND
Have served continuously for at least 1 year in the other merit system prior to appointment under the interchange agreement.
Are you an Employee under Miscellaneous Authorities Not Regulated by U.S. Office of Personnel Management; or another authority which grants non-competitive eligibility (Postal Career Service Employee; Postal Rate Commission Employee; Government Accountability Office (GAO) Employee; Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts Employee)?
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation. You must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or equivalent documentation reflecting your status. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information on miscellaneous appointing authorities, visit the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, navigate to Types of Appointments.
 Yes
 No


18.
To claim VEOA eligibility, please confirm you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions,  AND:
You served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
You are entitled to veterans' preference.

Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service, and/or other documentation which shows you are entitled to veterans' preference.

Are you a Veteran eligible to apply under the VEOA?
 Yes
 No


19.
To claim eligibility under the Veterans Recruitment Authority (VRA), please confirm you are a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND:
You recently separated (within the past 3 years); OR
You are a disabled veteran; OR
You served on active duty during a war, campaign or expedition; OR
You received an Armed Forces Service Medal
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15.

Are you eligible for appointment under the VRA?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
This position is covered by the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336 (c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d). This is a secondary/administrative position in an organization having a firefighting mission and is clearly in an established career path. Prior structural firefighting experience, as gained by substantial service in a primary firefighter position or equivalent experience outside the Federal government is a MANDATORY PREREQUISITE. Please select A or B below to indicate whether you meet this mandatory requirement.
 I have structural firefighting experience. This experience can be met by serving on a federal, state or local government, temporary, seasonal or equivalent private sector firefighting position on a permanent basis, for a significant amount of time. This experience has been documented on my work history/experience blocks on my resume.
 I do not possess the structural firefighting experience described above.


2.
Do you currently possess all of the following; 1) Fire Officer III,  2) Fire Instructor II, 3) Fire Inspector II (or the new 2024 Fire Inspector), 4) Driver Operator Pumper, 5) Hazmat Awareness and Operations certifications from the International Fire Service Accreditation Congress (IFSAC) or National Board on Fire Service Professional Qualifications (NPQS/Pro Board) entity? (You must attach a copy of your certifications to your application package.). http://theproboard.org/
 Yes and I have attached a copy of my certifications with my application. (Note: failure to provide a copy of your certification will result in you being disqualified for this job.)
 No, I do not have these certifications and acknowledge this will disqualify me from further consideration.


Minimum Qualifications


3.
Please select one response that best describes how your background meets the experience requirement of the Fire Protection Specialist, GS-0081-12 position.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 level in the Federal service that involved experience related to structural fire management activities which include: applying comprehensive knowledge of fire management principles, policies, and procedures to plan, implement, coordinate, and evaluate one or more fire management program areas. Experience analyzing program performance, interpreting policy, coordinating with partners, and providing technical guidance to support organizational objectives.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


4.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting your or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period. Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙