Position Title
Recreation Assistant
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
PEN 26-12843940 Opens in new window
Open Period
Wednesday, December 10, 2025 to Wednesday, December 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
1.
I am willing and able to lift and/or carry loads/items up to 40 pounds.
 Yes
 No


2.
Work may require sitting, walking, long periods of standing, bending. Are you able to meet these physical requirements?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Recreation Assistant, NF-0189-02 position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the response applicable to you.
 I have six (6) months or more of specialized experience. Specialized experience includes performing aid or assistance in the organization and administration of recreation activities, such as preparing activities calendars, maintaining attendance records, and providing information concerning schedules and activities.
 I have successful completion of two (2) years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in courses related to recreation (e.g., basic psychology, group dynamics, physical education, arts and crafts, etc.). If claiming education in lieu of experience transcripts must be included.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and/or experience as described above.
 I have none of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Are you currently C.A.R.E (Controlling Alcohol Risks Effectively) trained, hold an Emergency First Responder (EFR) or CPR First Aid certification, and hold a current Food Handler certification, upon being placed in the position

OR

Able to obtain these trainings/certifications within 90 days of being placed in the position.
 Yes
 No


3.
How many years of experience do you have with providing customer service e.g. providing timely and attentive service to internal and external customers, clear communication skills, product knowledge, and positive attitude)?
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in organizing, planning, administering special events and entertainment activities?

 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have no experience as described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙