Position Title
Management and Program Analyst
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12960109-26-KT Opens in new window
Open Period
May 13, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12
13


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
GG-11 - Select the statement that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-09 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include: Experience in analyzing an organization’s programmatic issues, data, and information; highlighting issues and problems; developing alternatives; and recommending solutions to management; Experience in performing assignments that have required the ability to identify issues and problems; Skill in communicating issues and policies with diverse groups in verbal and written form; and Skill in interacting effectively with management and staff, coworkers, and personnel of other offices.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M. in a field which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the work of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience required but I have more than two years of graduate level education with a major or subject area related to the position to be filled. Therefore, I have a combination of experience and education qualifying for this position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GG-12 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-11 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include: Demonstrated detailed experience in analyzing a organization’s programmatic issues, data, and information; highlighting issues and problems; developing alternatives; and recommending solutions to management; Demonstrated detailed experience in managing a tight deadline workload, evaluating priorities, and making transitions frequently between dissimilar projects with minimal supervision; Extensive experience in performing assignments that have required the ability to identify issues and problems; Demonstrated experience in using written and oral communication skills to effectively communicate complex issues and policies; and Superior skill in interacting effectively with management and staff, coworkers, and personnel of other offices.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


3.
GG-13 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-12 (or higher) grade level or equivalent to include: Demonstrated detailed experience in analyzing a organization’s programmatic issues, data, and information; highlighting issues and problems; developing alternatives; and recommending solutions to management; Demonstrated detailed experience in managing a tight deadline workload, evaluating priorities, and making transitions frequently between dissimilar projects with minimal supervision; Extensive experience in performing assignments that have required the ability to identify issues and problems; Demonstrated experience in using written and oral communication skills to effectively communicate complex issues and policies; and Superior skill in interacting effectively with management and staff, coworkers, and personnel of other offices.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙