Position Title
Planner/ Estimator
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12889724-NE-DLG-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
May 28, 2026 to Jun 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current United States Coast Guard civilian employee in the competitive service?

Internal Employees/Agency Employees Only. Applicants must be current United States Coast Guard permanent Federal civilian employees serving on career or career-conditional appointments.

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
YOUR RESPONSES TO THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS MUST BE SUPPORTED IN YOUR RESUME. FAILURE TO SUPPORT YOUR ANSWER(S) IN YOUR RESUME MAY IMPACT YOU OR ELIMINATE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION


1.
I have performed the following functions as they relate to program planning and the management and control of construction, maintenance, or repair projects:
 A. Developing project requirements
 B. Managing internal/external customer needs
 C. Tracking project activities
 D. Reviewing detailed plans
 E. Setting priorities for accomplishment of project milestones
 F. None of the above


2.
I have led or been a key member of a construction, maintenance, or repair project team comprised of individuals from different occupations..
 Yes, I have led or been a key member of a construction, maintenance, or repair project team comprised of individuals from different occupations.
 No, I have not led or been a key member of a construction, maintenance, or repair project team comprised of individuals from different occupations.


3.
I have performed the following project management functions, either independently or under direct supervision, in association with construction, maintenance, or repair  projects:
 A. Applied comprehensive knowledge of project management for construction or alterations in commercial buildings (facilities) or vessel/shipboard repair packages.
 B. Developed project schedules following the Critical Path Method (CPM).
 C. Monitored and tracked performance against project schedules and project timelines to ensure projects meet schedule.
 D. Performed project management functions or project oversight on multiple projects simultaneously.
 E. Developed project schedules using computer programs such as: Microsoft Project Manager, Primavera, and Microsoft Excel spreadsheet software applications.
 F. None of the above.


4.
Which of the following best describes your experience with identifying, selecting, and estimating quantities and costs of materials for maintenance or repair tasks?
 A. I have not had experience or training in this area
 B. I have had training in this area but have not applied it on the job.
 C. I have used instructions or guidance to select materials for routine tasks.
 D. I have independently selected and estimated quantities and costs of materials for a variety of tasks.
 E. I am considered an expert and provide guidance to others in selecting and estimating quantities and costs of materials.


5.
Which statement best describes your experience estimating labor hours for maintenance or repair tasks?
 I have not estimated labor hours.
 I have assisted others in estimating labor hours.
 I have estimated labor hours for routine tasks using established guidelines.
 I have independently estimated labor hours for complex projects.
 I am considered an expert and train others in estimating labor hours.


6.
I have provided advice and guidance to senior management and/or clients regarding the following project issues:
 A. Project cost estimates
 B. Project scope
 C. Project deliveries
 D. Project requirements
 E. Project schedules
 F. None of the above


7.
Please choose the response which best reflects your level of experience interpreting engineering drawings  and specifications.
 I am highly skilled at interpreting engineering drawings and specifications. I have performed this task routinely and have conducted training in this area.
 I have performed similar or directly related job functions and my experience and training have prepared me to perform these functions successfully.
 I have independently interpreted engineering drawings and specifications as a regular part of jobs that I have held.
 I have completed formal education or training in performing this task but have not yet performed it on the job.
 None of the above


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙