Position Title
Senior Scientist for Lunar Exploration
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
HQ-26-SL-12905798 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 22, 2026 to May 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a veteran requesting Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (VEOA) consideration whose most recent discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
Served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: If released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR 
Are entitled to veterans' preference?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


Non-Federal Employee
1.
Are you a current federal employee on a career or career conditional appointment; OR on a NASA term appointment with conversion eligibility; OR a current permanent federal employee of an excepted service agency with an OPM interchange agreement; OR a Veteran eligible under Veterans Employment Opportunity Act.
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a CURRENT Federal Employee, please list your current pay plan, series and grade level/pay band. If you are not a current Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


3.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please list the HIGHEST pay plan, series, and grade level/pay band held. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


4.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please provide the DURATION of the highest grade held. For example, 01/10/19- Present or 09/08/19 to 06/30/20. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Instructions
Please ensure the information in your resume matches your answers to the questions. Please be sure your answers and resume are accurate, as NASA can only qualify you based on your responses. You may be rated ineligible if you do not meet the minimum qualification requirements of the position.


Education
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must have the required basic education from an accredited college or university.


1.
This position requires a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with major study in engineering, physical science, mathematics, life sciences, computer science, or other field of science. Please select the response that best describes your education.
 I meet the basic education requirement.
 I do not meet the basic education requirement.


2.
Education completed outside of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or any territory or possession of the United States must be deemed equivalent to that gained in conventional/accredited U.S. education programs to be acceptable for Federal employment. Please select the response that best describes your education.
 I have a degree that was obtained by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.
 I have a foreign degree and the degree has been evaluated by a foreign credential evaluation service.
 I have a foreign degree but it has not been evaluated by a foreign credential evaluation service.
 None of the above.


Specialized Experience
Candidates must be a nationally or internationally recognized scientific expert with at least one year of GS-15-equivalent experience leading Lunar Science and Exploration efforts through missions or scientific research programs. This experience includes the development of Lunar Science and Exploration strategies; publishing research on the Earth's Moon; and collaborating across broad, complex networks of scientific and external stakeholders within the Lunar and Planetary science communities.


3.
Do you have the specialized experience described above?
 I have the required specialized experience.
 I do not meet or have the required specialized experience.


Senior Level (SL) Evaluation Criteria
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, your resume must address each of the Senior Level (SL) Evaluation Criteria.  Failure to address these qualifications will eliminate you from consideration.


4.
Will your resume address the SL Evaluation Criteria?
 Yes, my resume will address the SL Evaluation Criteria.
 No, my resume will not address the SL Evaluation Criteria and I will be rated ineligible.


Certification


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙