Position Title
MANAGEMENT ANALYST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12899182-AR-26-028-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 02, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Area of Consideration
1.
Are you a current on-board T5 or T32 technicians in the Ohio Army National Guard?
*SF-50 required*
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess 1- year of  experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


2.
Reviews organizational information regarding inventory management, storage management, equipment coordination fiscal and supply management utilizing inspection reports, applicable Department of Army (DA) regulations, and activity mission statements to identify tentative sub-objectives or firm objectives regarding stock record operations. Performs management studies of organization's auditable entity to identify potential problems such as reviewing operating procedures and management practices of the activity. Prepares audit lead sheets to identify potential weaknesses in internal controls. Conducts troubleshooting and management studies to ascertain the need for changes in existing management systems or methods of operation such as work processes, functional responsibility, operating techniques, organizational structure and other factors effecting the efficient and economical use of available resources.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


3.
Accomplishes management studies by applying best business practices and basic audit techniques to gather, document, and summarize data. Prepares working papers and files to document management studies. Prepares management studies which present findings identifying causative situations and recommending corrective action. Conducts or participates in the discussion of findings with activity personnel. Makes necessary adjustments based on this discussion.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙