Position Title
SUPERVISORY SUPPLY SPECIALIST
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12900833-AF-26-401 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 03, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government?

Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness?

Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role?

Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements?

Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I NB)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II NB)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience, education, or training in a variety of operations or situations concerned with substance or content of supply actions, requiring ability to decide course of action to take, considering the circumstances or conditions encountered. Knowledge of basic or commonly applied rules, procedures, or operations such as, filling out, posting, filing, controlling, or coding documents and/or transactions. Experience using computer and automation systems.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have 1-year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade of GS-9. Knowledge of governing supply regulations, policies, procedures, and instructions applicable to the specific assignment. Experience conducting searches for required information; reconstruct records for supply transactions; and/or provide supply operations support for activities involving specialized or unique supplies, equipment, and parts. Experience performing various aspects of supply specialist work based on practical knowledge of standard procedures, where assignments include individual case problems related to segments in one or more major areas of supply management. Experience which required person-to-person contacts to convey information and ability to compile reports, letters, memoranda, etc. Experience may include experience controlling supply stocks and accounting for equipment, cataloging, maintenance, and disposal procedures. Completing complex supply transactions; and/or providing supply operations support. Experience coordinating with other organizations on complex and controversial supply issues. Experience analyzing, developing, evaluating to improve supply programs, policies, procedures, techniques, etc. Knowledge on the entire inventory management supply system. Experience providing advice and guidance on supply regulations to upper levels of management regarding supply functions. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E7/MSgt - E8/SMSgt)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank or eligible rank of transfer/enlistment/reinstatement?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙