Position Title
Health System Specialist (GHATP Trainee)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12950054-26-CP Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associate's, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Bay Pines, FL
 B. Miami, FL
 C. Orlando, FL
 D. Tampa, FL


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


In order to receive appropriate consideration, you should submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veterans' Preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (member copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-Point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-Point Veterans' Preference along with the required documentation listed on the form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, please apply to announcement number CBTC-12949369-26-CP.


These are TERM appointments. Term appointments are non-status, nonpermanent appointments of limited duration (Not more than 4 years). Term employees are eligible to earn leave and generally have the same benefits as permanent employees including health and life insurance, within-grade increases and Federal Employees Retirement System and Thrift Savings Plan coverage. Term appointments may be extended without further competition (up to the 4 year maximum). Current, permanent employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, apply to announcement number CBTC-12871169-26-CP.


1.
Graduate Healthcare Administrative Training Program (GHATP) Recent Graduate: This vacancy is to recruit recent graduates. A recent graduate is one that has graduated and/or completed all requirements for a graduate degree in the past two years OR those who will graduate and complete all onboarding requirements before June 13, 2026.

Qualifying degrees are:
Master's degree in hospital administration, public health administration or other healthcare admin/management from a qualifying degree program recognized by the Department of Education. A Master's in business or public administration may be accepted if at least two (2) healthcare courses are taken before completion of the Master's degree.
Courses in healthcare taken toward a Bachelor's degree DO NOT count. The healthcare courses taken MUST be toward the Masters Degree/Masters courses.

Veterans (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108) who, due to military service obligation, were precluded from applying to the Recent Graduates program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period described above have a full 2-year period of eligibility upon their release or discharge from active duty; however, this eligibility period cannot extend beyond 6 years from the date of completion of the requirements of an academic course of study. (DD-214 required) (Unofficial transcripts will be accepted, however official transcripts must be received and provided by June 13, 2026)

Please select the response below that most accurately describes you.
 Yes, I possess/or will possess the described degree within the past 2 years or 6 years if I am a veteran or by June 13, 2026.
 No, I do not possess/nor will I possess the described degree above.


2.
This position has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR). To meet the IOR, applicants must have one of the following:

Graduate Education: Major study -- hospital administration, public health administration, or related fields such as business or public administration with course work in health care administration. (Transcript Required with application)
- OR -
Specialized Experience: Progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. This work may have been performed in an operating health care facility or a higher organizational echelon with advisory or directional authority over such facilities. Work must have involved a close working relationship with facility managers and analysis and/or coordination of administrative, clinical, or other service activities, and provided knowledge of the following:
- Missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems;
- Regulations and standards of various regulatory and credentialing groups; and
- Government-wide, agency, and facility systems and requirements in various administrative areas such as budget, personnel, and procurement.

Please select the response below that most accurately describes you.
 I meet the IOR requirement by having the education (transcript required).
 I meet the IOR requirement by having specialized experience.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


3.
GS-09 Grade Level

Minimum Qualification Requirement: Your resume must support your response.

Carefully read the following descriptions of the required specialized experience for the position. Applicants must have one full year of specialized experience related to this position. This experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal Service.

Specialized Experience: Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: Experience showing progressively responsible analytical or administrative, or clinical management or supervisory experience in the health care field. Demonstrates knowledge of missions, organizations, programs, and requirements of health care delivery systems. Experience in data analysis that guides decision-making. Participation in projects that have resulted in systematic change in an organization. Experience leading groups, projects, activities. Involvement in career growth opportunities. -OR-

Education: Applicants may substitute education for the required experience. To qualify based on education for this grade level you must have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree; OR two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; or, LL.B. or J.D. - OR -

Combination of Experience & Education: Applicants may also combine education and experience to qualify at this level. You must have a combination of specialized experience graduate-level education beyond 18 semester hours counting towards a master's degree.

NOTE: Transcripts (unofficial or official) must be submitted with your application materials. Education cannot be credited without documentation. Copies of degree diplomas are not acceptable. 

Please select the response below that most accurately describes you.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization.
 I possess a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related.
 I possess a combination of experience and education. My total qualifying experience as a percentage of the specialized experience required plus my total creditable education as a percentage of the education required equals at least 100 percent.
 None of the above responses apply to me; therefore, I am not qualified for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙