Position Title
LEAD MEDICAL SUPPORT ASSISTANT
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12900898-26-HH Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you willing to undergo a pre-employment physical?
 Yes
 No


5.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


6.
Please indicate the location(s) you are interested in working at. The list below is broken down regionally by VISN (Veterans Integrated Service Network). For details regarding the specific facilities within each VISN please click here.
 A. VISN 1: VA England Healthcare System (ME, VT, NH, MA, CT, RI)
 B. VISN 2: New York/New Jersey VA Health Care Network (NY, NJ)
 C. VISN 4: VA Healthcare - VISN 4 (PA, DE)
 D. VISN 5: VA Capitol Health Care Network (DC, MD, WV)
 E. VISN 6: VA Mid-Atlantic Health Care Network (VA, NC)
 F. VISN 7: VA Southeast Network (AL, GA, SC)
 G. VISN 8: VA Sunshine Healthcare Network (FL, PR, Virgin Islands)
 H. VISN 9: VA MidSouth Healthcare Network (KY, TN)
 I. VISN 10: VA Healthcare System
 J. VISN 12: VA Great Lakes Health Care System
 K. VISN 15: VA Heartland Network
 L. VISN 16: South Central VA Health Care Network
 M. VISN 17: VA Heart of Texas Health Care Network
 N. VISN 19: Rocky Mountain Network
 O. VISN 20: Northwest Network
 P. VISN 21: Sierra Pacific Network
 Q. VISN 22: Desert Pacific Healthcare Network
 R. VISN 23: VA Midwest Health Care Network


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Gainesville, FL
 B. Jacksonville, FL
 C. Middleburg, FL


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Lead Medical Support Assistant position with the VA. Please provide an answer to each question. Answering "no" or failing to respond to any of the below questions will result in an ineligible rating.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS. To be eligible for this position of this series, you must meet the basic requirements. Please answer the following basic requirement questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship. Citizen of the United States by birth or naturalized.

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency: In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), no person shall serve in a direct patient care position unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. You must be proficient in basic written and spoken English in order to perform the duties of this position.

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


3.
Experience and Education: 
Experience. At least Six months experience of clerical, office, customer service, or other administrative work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position; OR
Education. One year above high school; OR
Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combination of experience and education that total 100% of the requirement.

Do you possess the above experience?
 I possess at least Six months experience of clerical, office, customer service, or other administrative work that indicates the ability to acquire the particular knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position.
 I have completed at least one year education above high school. (Must submit transcripts)
 I have some experience but less than 6 months, and I have some education above high school but less than 1 year, however Experience/Education Combination together total 100% of the requirement. (Must submit transcripts)
 None of the above.


The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required experience. Carefully read the following description of experience and select the ONE that best describes your qualifications for this position. Make sure that your resume supports the response that you select.


4.
GS-7 Lead Medical Support Assistant
Experience. One year of experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level leading or supervising MSAs or equivalent administrative patient support staff in a non-VA medical inpatient, outpatient, or interdisciplinary setting.
Assignment. Supervisory MSAs plan and direct programs at medical centers and/or satellite outpatient clinics and have full supervisory responsibility. Assignments at this level include, but are not limited to: assigning and evaluating the work of subordinate MSA staff; resolving complex problems to ensure patient services are met; evaluating new products, equipment, and systems to make recommendations for improved clinic operations; identifying educational or training needs; making final decisions on hiring selections; evaluating performance, and taking disciplinary action when necessary. The employee has full administrative and professional responsibility for planning and directing the MSA's activities. For all assignments above the full performance level, the higher-level duties must consist of significant scope, administrative independence, complexity (difficulty) and range of variety as described in this standard at the specified grade level and be performed by the incumbent at least 25% of the time.

Do you possess the above experience?
 Yes, I possess the above experience.
 No, I do not possess the above experience.


5.
GS-7 Lead Medical Support Assistant
Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities. Candidates must demonstrate all KSAs below:
Ability to provide the full range of administrative and supervisory duties in a patient support setting, which includes assignment of work, performance evaluations, selection of staff, and recommendation of awards and/or advancements].
Ability to collaborate, communicate, and demonstrate customer service and interpersonal skills with internal and external customers to ensure quality/continuity of care and ensure compliance with established policies and regulations.
Ability to provide briefings, orientations, staff development, and [training related to administrative functions in a patient support setting].
Ability to delegate authority, evaluate and oversee people and programs, accomplish program goals, and adapt to changing priorities.
Do you possess the above listed Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities?
 Yes; I possess all of the above listed Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.
 No; I do not possess all of the above listed Knowledge, Skills and Abilities.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


6.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated and that responding "No" or providing no response to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER: IN DESCRIBING YOUR EXPERIENCE, PLEASE BE CLEAR AND SPECIFIC. WE WILL NOT MAKE ASSUMPTIONS REGARDING YOUR EXPERIENCE.

Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. In your resume you will need to address the general and specialized experience listed below. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Resume should include for example: contact information; descriptions of jobs held, including the name and address of employer, job title, description of duties, beginning and ending date (month/year) of employment, average hours worked per week if part-time, and supervisor's name and phone number; education, including name and location of college, dates attended, and type and date of any degree earned; other information such as possession of licenses, certificates, etc. Descriptions of duties must be sufficiently detailed to document the level of experience. Although not mandatory, if the position is (was) with the Federal government, either military or civilian, you should state the series and grade or pay grade (rank) and the date of last promotion.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙