Position Title
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST (RADIO TECH)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-13006128-AR-26-513 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Army or Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army or Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army or Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience that provided a basic knowledge of telecommunications functions, problems, and/or solutions.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE OR EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS
Must meet one of the following options to qualify for this position:

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE
1 year of experience equivalent to at least next lower grade level, evaluating, analyzing, developing, managing, or improving communications systems, procedures, and requirements that demonstrated knowledge of current developments and trends in communications concepts and technology.
*MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences if using experience to qualify for this position.

-OR-


EDUCATION

Undergraduate and Graduate Education with major study in electrical or electronic engineering, mathematics, physics, public utilities, statistics, computer science, telecommunications management, information systems management, business administration, industrial management, or other fields related to the position to be filled or
Other education in communications/electronics or automatic data processing training in technical institutes or business schools above the high school level or in Armed Forces schools that included advanced instruction in addition to basic courses.
*Must submit a copy of relevant transcripts, if using education to qualify for this position.

Do you meet the specialized experience or one of the education requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the requirements for specialized experience.
 Yes, I meet the requirements for education.
 No.


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(Enlisted E5 - E9; Warrant WO1 - CW3)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Army or Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Army or Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed, but I am willing & able to take a reduction.
 No, I am over graded in military rank listed and I am unwilling to take a reduction.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement in the MT Army or Air National Guard to the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Army or Air National Guard, and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement to the ranks indicated.


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙