Position Title
Biomedical Engineer - Clinical
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CAZP-12981894-26-KJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs within the VISN the position is located?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to the following question(s) based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties as a Biomedical Engineer. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification. Failure to respond to these questions will result in an ineligible rating.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Education Requirement: Please choose the response that best describes your education. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript (unofficial or official) with your application. Education cannot be credited without documentation.
 I possess a Bachelors degree or Higher in Engineering. To be creditable, the curriculum must be from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET), as a professional engineering curriculum. Examples of acceptable engineering degrees include: Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Engineering, Bioengineering, Biomechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Biochemical Engineering.
 I possess a Certification as a Certified Clinical Engineer (CCE) and a bachelors degree not listed in item 2.A. above.
 I do not have a professional engineering degree or an acceptable combination of education and certification.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
GS-14 Grade Requirements: Do you possess at least one (1) year of specialized experience that equipped you with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position? To be credible, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the GS-13 level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to: 
Implementing and/or sustaining an equipment management or biomedical research program that meets The Joint Commission (TJC), National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), or other applicable regulatory requirements.
Developing material for a continuing education program for clinical or research staff, that address the principles and application of medical technology, and/or biomedical theory used in healthcare.
Advising staff on emerging medical technology, or research procedures, while keeping abreast of changes in such technology, and utilizing the information to solve biomedical engineering problems.
Project management principles, as applied to the healthcare setting and medical equipment, and information system implementation.
Interpreting and applying complex codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards associated with the biomedical engineering field.
Communication and working collaboratively with key stakeholders, including technical and professional staff at various levels of the organization.

Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs.

Ability to apply advanced knowledge of relevant codes, regulations, guidelines, and standards associated with biomedical engineering to support the needs of multiple facilities.
Ability to effectively convey highly technical information to a wide variety of individuals, including technical and professional clinical staff, and senior level managers at the facility, VISN and/or national level.
Ability to manage a recall and safety alert program for medical devices, including medical device incident investigations to assure compliance with patient safety goals, SMDA, and TJC requirements for multiple facilities.
Ability to apply advanced knowledge of principles, theories, concepts, and practices of biomedical engineering. This would include the ability to keep abreast of changes in technology and utilize the information gained in the solution of biomedical engineering problems to meet operational needs of multiple facilities.
Ability to directly support the most complex and specialized clinical technology including service, system administration, training, and quality assurance for multiple facilities.
Ability to work collaboratively with other disciplines, senior management, VHA Central Office, and VISN staff.
Ability to develop and implement healthcare technology management policies that are consistent with organizational objectives. Scope of organization spans from multiple facilities to national.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙