Position Title
Chief Diagnostic Radiology Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTG-12983910-26-LRC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 16, 2026 to Jun 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
In accordance with Office of the Chief Human Capital Officer (OCHCO) Bulletin, Annual Determination of Staffing Shortages dated September 25, 2025; Diagnostic Radiologic Technologists (DRTs), 0647 (all specializations are included) are not subject to Veterans Preference. This will continue until September 30, 2026. Veterans Preference will not be collected for this announcement.


The following section is used to determine your minimum qualifications for appointment with the Federal Government. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSES YOU SELECT.


For each task in the following group, choose the statement from the list below that best describes your experience and/or training.


Federal regulations require a person appointed in any direct care capacity to possess such basic proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities satisfactorily.


1.
Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school diagnostic radiologic technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate's degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from schools accredited by the ARRT and certification by the ARRT in radiology?
Note, transcript or educational documentation must be submitted.

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019 and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019, to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


3.
Are you certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology (ARRT) (R)?
Note: Copy of ARRT certification must be submitted for consideration.

 Yes
 No, but I meet the grandfathering provision in that I was a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist in the Department of Veterans' Affairs at the GS-9 or higher grade level on December 13, 2019 and have been continuously employed as a Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist since December 13, 2019. (Copies of ALL SF-50's from December 13, 2019 to present are required to be uploaded as part of your application.)
 No


Supervisory [Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist] [ ]. Assignment to this grade level is restricted to those serving as the chief radiologic technologist at medical facilities with comprehensive and complex radiographic and imaging programs. Employees in these assignments plan and direct the radiologic technology program at active, affiliated medical centers with critical care and emergent inpatient services, and have full supervisory responsibility for a large staff of subordinate personnel, including GS-10 DRTs, at least one subordinate team leader or supervisor at the next lower grade level, and may include clerical or administrative support staff. At this level, the radiologic technology program typically includes the full variety of comprehensive and complex modalities.


4.
Do you possess 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level (GS-11), which is directly related to the position to be filled?

The incumbent functions as section supervisor for a group of advanced DRTs at the GS-10 level and below, which may include support staff. The incumbent evaluates new products and equipment and makes recommendations to the supervisor concerning upgrades/new purchases that would improve operations. The incumbent develops and maintains protocol manuals for procedures performed in the section. The incumbent is responsible for implementation and adherence to all safety practices and policies for the section. The incumbent directs the development and implementation of services and treatment to patients through the supervision, mentoring, and oversight of assigned clinical staff. Experience must demonstrate practice skills in a specialty area or in administration demonstrating progressively more professional competency and judgment.
 Yes
 No


5.
In addition to the above, your experience, as listed in your resume, must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
(KSAs) and demonstrate the potential to acquire the assignment-specific KSAs designated by an asterisk (*). Do you possess the following KSAs?

i. *Ability to perform the full range of supervisory duties, including responsibility for assignment of work performed; performance evaluations; recommendations for appointments, awards, advancements, and, when appropriate, disciplinary actions; and identification of continuing education and training needs.
ii. [Ability] to serve as a consultant to other facility personnel in evaluating and planning radiologic technology services for the most complex cases.
iii. *Ability to participate in research studies and/or as a consultant to others conducting research.
iv. *Ability to consult with staff and resident physicians through patient presentation, attending ward rounds, and specialty clinics and/or conferences, etc.
v. *[Ability] to assess, plan, and evaluate the delivery of radiologic technology services at the facility.
 Yes
 NO


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙