Position Title
Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSX-13015778-26-SR Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 22, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Diagnostic Radiologic Technologist (DRT) position with the VA. Select the appropriate answer to the following questions based on your level of education and experience that demonstrates you meet the basic requirements for this position.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Proficiency. Are you proficient in spoken and written English?

 Yes
 No


2.
Education. Have you completed a full-time training course of at least 24 months in duration (or the equivalent) in a post-high school Diagnostic Radiologic Technology program, evidenced by a certificate or an associate degree, accredited by the Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (JRCERT) or from other accrediting agencies as recognized by the Department of Education (DOE)? NOTE: Assignment to the clinical program director requires meeting JRCERT minimum educational standards as noted in the assignment description.

 Yes
 No


3.
Certification. All applicants must be certified in general radiologic technology by the American Registry of Radiologic Technology, Radiography (ARRT) (R).

(NOTE: Exception for Non-Certified, Entry Level Candidates. Non-certified DRTs who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for ARRT (R) certification may be given a temporary appointment as a graduate DRT under the authority of 38 U.S.C. 7405(c)(2)(B). The appointing official may waive the requirement of certification for a period not to exceed two years for a DRT that provides care under the supervision of a certified DRT at or above the full performance level. This exception only applies at the GS-5 entry level technician. For grade levels above the entry level, the candidate must be certified. Temporary appointments of non-certified DRTs may not be extended beyond two years or converted to a new temporary appointment.)

Do you meet this requirement or the exemption?

 Yes
 No


4.
To qualify at the GS-5 level: Do you meet the basic education requirement in question 2 above?

 Yes
 No


5.
To qualify at the GS-6 level: applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level OR the successful completion grade level OR the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging.

In addition to the experience/education above, applicants must demonstrate the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSA's):

Knowledge of basic technique standards for minimum radiographic exposure.
Knowledge of anatomy and positioning.
Knowledge of all patient safety procedures.
Knowledge of radiographic producing equipment.
Ability to learn basic computer functions

 I have one full year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's
 I have completed one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to Diagnostic
 None of the above describe my qualifications.


6.
To qualify at the GS-7 level: Applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level; OR the successful completion of one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging; OR successful completion of an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging?

Education may relate to the duties of a specific position or to the occupation but must be appropriate for the position being filled.

In addition to the education/experience, applicants must demonstrate the following KSA's:
Knowledge of the technical adequacy of the digital image, including the ability to adjust the image quality in the digital system.
Knowledge of different contrast material required for the requested study.
Knowledge of radiation protection standards, minimum radiographic exposure techniques, appropriate beam limitation to anatomical area, and employing lead shielding when performing standard radiographic and fluoroscopic procedures.
Knowledge of computed radiography, CR readers and Digital Imaging systems.
Knowledge of PACS and basic computer skills

 I have at lease one full year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 I have completed one full academic year of graduate education leading to a degree in radiography, and can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 I have successfully completed an advanced registry program, with certification, in addition to a 4-year baccalaureate degree program in radiography or other directly related field to diagnostic radiology/imaging, and I can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 None of the above describe my qualifications.


7.
To qualify at the GS-8 level: Applicants must have at least one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level that demonstrates the clinical competencies described at that level.

In addition to the experience, applicants must demonstrate the following KSA's:

Ability to check system for operation and assess acceptable performance based on established guidelines.
Knowledge of calibration parameters and the ability to make adjustments as needed.
Knowledge of patient's clinical record, diagnosis, and laboratory results.
Ability to monitor patient's physiologic changes during the procedure and keep the radiologist informed.
Skill in using tact, diplomacy, and courtesy in dealings with the customer base, patients, staff, family, visitors, and volunteers.
Knowledge of anatomy and physiology, and cross-sectional anatomy, recognizing unusual images, and determining proper positioning to best demonstrate areas of interest.

 I have at one year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level and can demonstrate the above mentioned KSA's.
 I do not have the experience described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙