Position Title
County Executive Director in Training
Agency
Farm Service Agency
Announcement Number
FSACO-12986491-CA-26-RW Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 12, 2026 to Jun 29, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you a current or former Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.


Assessment 1
1.
You may start at the CO-05 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
Successful completion of four years of education above high school, in an accredited business, secretarial, technical, junior college, college or university in any field in which high school graduation or the equivalent is a prerequisite, or bachelor's degree from such an accredited college or university: OR
One year of general work experience in support of projects, programs, or assignments providing a essential knowledge of agricultural operations, agricultural management, governmental programs, or related office and customer service functions that indicate the ability to: analyze problems, gather relevant data, and recognize solutions; plan and organize work; resolve conflict; communicate effectively both orally and in writing: OR
Combination of education and experience described above.
 I have completed a 4 year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree or earned a bachelor's degree.
 I meet the experience requirement described above for the CO-5.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience.
 I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience to qualify for this position.


2.
You may start at the CO-07 level if you have one of the following qualifications:
Successful completion of one full year of graduate education from an accredited college or university. OR
Superior Academic Achievement: A bachelor's degree in any field of study from an accredited college or university with either:
grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 based on a 4.0 scale;
3.5 GPA based on a 4.0 scale for required courses completed in a major field of study during the last two years of undergraduate study;
class standing of upper third of the graduating class in the college, university, or major subdivision of the college;
membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society certified by the Association of College Honor Societies, excluding freshman honor societies.
An applicant must submit an unofficial copy of their transcript at the initial phase of the application process demonstrating that they qualify based on superior academic achievement. If selected for the position, an official transcript must be provided from the college or university before the applicant entering on duty. OR
One-year specialized experience equivalent to grade CO-5 or GS-5 level. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of basic principles, concepts, and methods of fact-finding, analysis, and problem-solving techniques as they apply to the analysis, evaluation, and application of agricultural program requirements. In addition, knowledge of and skill in applying analytical and evaluative techniques to assist in assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural program operations to make recommendations for improvements. OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 I have completed a 4-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree with a GPA of 3.0 or higher.
 I meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-7.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described but I have a combination of the type of education and experience.
 I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience to qualify for this position.


3.
At CO-09, applicants must meet one of the following criteria in order to qualify for this position:
A Masters or equivalent graduate degree or two full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree from an accredited college or university: OR
One year specialized experience equivalent to at least grade CO-7 or GS-7 in the federal service. Specialized experience is experience that demonstrates knowledge of agricultural program policies and practices to independently examine applications, supporting documents, and program reports. In addition, experience applying analytical and evaluative techniques to assist in assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of agricultural program operations to make recommendations for improvements: OR
One year of any supervisory experience: OR
A combination of education and experience as described above.
 I have completed a course of study leading to a master's degree or I possess a Master's degree.
 I meet the specialized experience requirement for CO-9.
 I have 1 year of Supervisory Experience.
 I have less than the full amount of education listed above, and less than the experience described, but I have a combination of the type of education and experience.
 I do not possess the education and/or specialized experience to qualify for this position.


4.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your knowledge and experience in planning, developing and coordinating programs involving highly diverse and complex agricultural commodities and enterprises. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have performed work involving a variety of diverse agricultural commodities and enterprises (e.g., involving numerous types of commodities including both crops and/or livestock enterprises involving entity operations or value-added producers).
 B. I have performed diverse farm operations (e.g., sole proprietorship involving various types of commodities including crops and livestock).
 C. I knowledge of typical livestock and crop business practices, (e.g. costs of production, storage and marketing practices, and record keeping, etc.) into a work setting.
 D. I have participated in an FSA, NRCS, or similar government program intended to support diverse agricultural activities.
 E. None of the Above.


5.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your knowledge of agricultural policy requirements. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have applied policies and regulations to make and/or service agricultural programs.
 B. I have advised farmers or ranchers of the various agricultural programs and implications on their individual situation to determine the type and amount of assistance most beneficial to them.
 C. I have demonstrated work or educational experience in researching, interpreting, and applying agricultural regulations.
 D. I have applied for a program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, following program regulations and requirements.
 E. None of the above.


6.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your ability to maintain effective contacts with representatives of agricultural agencies, civic groups, farmers and the general public. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have provided advice and explained technical farm program rules and regulations to assist farmers or ranchers in completing commodity applications.
 B. I have provided guidance and assistance to explain rules and regulations in support of making agricultural programs.
 C. I have presented information and acted as a resource for agricultural related topics to farm groups such as the Future Farmers of America, Farm Bureau, Corn Growers’ Association, Cattlemen’s Association, etc.
 D. I have handled questions from the public and peer groups regarding agricultural or financial policies and procedures.
 E. None of the above.


7.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your ability to communicate orally. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have conducted formal stand up training workshops or classes, engaging the audience and obtaining feedback.
 B. I have presented information to groups or individuals in an informal setting.
 C. I have held discussions with potential producers to determine which type of service best suited for their needs and helped determine programs for which they may qualify.
 D. I have responded to inquiries from the media, Farmers, Ranchers, agricultural organizations, and/or other government and public interest groups.
 E. None of the above.


8.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your ability to maintain cooperative relationships and recommending ways to improve access to programs through community outreach efforts and removal of barriers. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have improved access to agency programs through activities including community outreach efforts and maintain communication and cooperative relationships with producers, lenders, commercial and educational institutions, rural community groups, and other Federal State and local agencies.
 B. I have conducted, or made presentations at, public meetings with various agricultural groups and associations, or performed public relations and outreach activities.
 C. I have conducted outreach efforts to meet the needs of socially disadvantaged and minority applicants and borrowers.
 D. I have participated in diversity activities and community activities.
 E. None of the above.


9.
From the description below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience communicating in writing with a variety of individuals/groups. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have written narratives to support a business plan or term paper on an agricultural, financial, or business topic.
 B. I have prepared written information on new procedures, techniques and trends in the agricultural and/or financial management field.
 C. I have developed correspondence and/or written papers.
 D. I have responded in writing to inquiries or requests for information.
 E. None of the above.


10.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your level of knowledge of agricultural production practices. (Select all that apply)
 A. In addition to being knowledgeable about production costs, rates, practices, health and disease control measures, I have performed work tasks relating to customary crop and livestock production practices, contract provisions, and performance expectations for specialty and integrated crop and livestock operations.
 B. To perform my work, I have applied knowledge about customary crop and livestock production practices such as typical costs of production (e.g., fuel, fertilizer, chemical, veterinary, seed, feed, repair, etc.) per unit, typical rates of production, accepted or normal tillage and crop rotation practices, proven livestock production practices, normal health and disease control measures for the most prevalent enterprises, etc.
 C. I have performed work tasks relating to agricultural lending or an agricultural program.
 D. I am familiar with livestock, crop, fruit and vegetable production practices (e.g., 4H, Future Farmers of America, etc.).
 E. None of the above.


11.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your ability to supervise and lead people. (Select all that apply)
 A. I have supervised one or more employee(s) for a minimum of one year.
 B. I have independently supervised or been a team leader as a regular part of my daily job duties without review from upper management.
 C. I have been a team leader while being monitored by upper management or a senior employee to ensure policy.
 D. None of the above.


12.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best describes your experience to effectively handle conflicts and negotiations. (Select all that apply)

 A. I have independently identified conflicts with others and effectively adopted solutions to resolve conflicting situations.
 B. I have assisted in identifying conflict situations between individuals and steered them to the appropriate individuals and resources to help resolve situations.
 C. I have helped to de-escalate conflict to defuse tension in hostile situations.
 D. I have performed my work tasks in a way that generates minimal conflict with my peers.
 E. None of the above.


13.
From the descriptions below, choose the response(s) that best demonstrates your commitment to customer service. (Select all that apply)


 A. I have grown our team’s customer service capabilities and have promoted a climate and culture for effectively serving the customer.
 B. I have corrected customer problems promptly without becoming defensive.
 C. I have been accessible and regularly updated and shared pertinent information with customers.
 D. I listen to concerns of customers and document their complaints to come up with the best suited solutions.
 E. None of the above.


14.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.




 Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not certify and I understand that by responding “no” to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙