Position Title
ELECTRONICS MECHANIC SUPERVISOR
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12930709-AR-26-420 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 07, 2026 to Apr 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
OPTIONAL QUESTIONS
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
This position is open internal to Area I employees with duties currently assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard.

Which status/Area applicant are you?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with duties currently assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I NB)
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with duties NOT currently assigned in the G4 of the Montana Army National Guard. (Area I NB)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 technician or T5 permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) or term (Tenure 3) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area II NB)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Army National Guard. (Area III NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV NB)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Army National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must have experience or training which demonstrates that the candidate has the ability to organize assignments for subordinates, estimate material and manpower needed for specific jobs; able to explain manuals and work procedures; and to prepare production records, work records and reports.

Do you meet the general experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***

 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the journeyman level knowledge, applicants must have experience which demonstrates the ability to plan, direct, and organize work assignments for lower grade personnel. Experience which required the review of work requirements and establish priorities to meet deadlines. Experience that provided knowledge of various lines of work performed by this function. Experience which demonstrates the ability to supervise or the potential to perform such duties as evidenced by the ability to communicate knowledge of general supervisory concepts, and knowledge of shop processes. Experience in adapting existing equipment and techniques to new situations.

Do you meet the specialized experience requirements listed above?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these specialized experiences to be considered for this position)***

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(WO1 - CW4)
 Yes
 No


5.
What is your current military rank?


6.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙