Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12844832-26-LS Opens in new window
Open Period
Friday, December 5, 2025 to Tuesday, December 16, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Medical Instrument Technician (Hemodialysis) position with Miami VA Healthcare System. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire. Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the qualification requirements.

BASIC REQUIREMENTS


1.
Citizenship: Citizenship of the United States. (Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g,VA HANDBOOK 5005/54 PART II APPENDIX G27.)

Are you a citizen of the United States?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency. Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a,VA HANDBOOK 5005/54 PART II APPENDIX G27.)

Are you proficient in the English language?
 Yes
 No


The full performance level of this vacancy is GS-08. The actual grade at which an applicant may be selected for this vacancy is in the range of GS-04 to GS-08.

The following Knowledge, Skills Abilities (KSA) should be reflected within your resume or on a separate document with your application package:

GS 04 KSAs:
Knowledge of basic medical terminology.
Ability to learn the components, operating characteristics, and settings of the equipment to be used.
Ability to learn typical patient reactions to the basic procedures involved and ability to recognize signs of distress.
Ability to learn the standard positions for the procedure being conducted.
Ability to communicate orally and in writing
GS 05 KSAs:
Skill in setting up, operating, and performing calibrations as required on a variety of dialysis equipment.
Skill in performing and interpreting test results (dialysate chemistries, water treatment testing for contaminates, etc.) including the ability to analyze deviations from the expected norm and responding appropriately.
Knowledge of American Association of Medical Instrumentation (AMMI) standards and unit policies as they relate to water treatment.
Knowledge of physiological and psychological changes and conditions related to end stage renal disease
Ability to calculate dialysis baths according to the physician's orders per patient by mixing critical concentrates, i.e., calcium, potassium, and bicarbonate. 6. Knowledge of Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS)
GS 07 KSAs:
Ability to assist the physician in more complex procedures such as central venous catheter insertion.
Ability to assist in training patients in home/self-care by teaching components of machine operation including water treatment and monitoring patients for compliance.
Ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower graded technicians.
Ability to analyze deviations from the expected, determine whether the deviations are machine or patient related, and respond according to the findings.
GS 08 KSAs:
Knowledge of the hemodialysis process and equipment needed for home/self care including knowledge of common machine problems and repairs to such equipment.
Knowledge of the equipment and procedures for peritoneal dialysis.
Ability to assist the physician with percutaneous renal biopsies and peritoneal catheter insertion.
Ability to provide instruction to dialysis patients in home/self care and in the maintenance of the equipment. 
Ability to provide instruction for physicians, nurses, and other personnel in dialysis procedures, equipment operation and maintenance, etc.
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience and/or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.

Select "Yes" or "No" to the following question(s).



3.
GS-04 Grade Determination:
 have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled. Six months of this experience may have been in medically related fields such as nursing assistant, practical nursing, or similar fields. The remaining six months must have been in operating diagnostic and therapeutic equipment covered by this occupation. Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited at this level. OR Education: Successful completion of two years of education above high school or an associate's degree with a major field of study directly related to the medical instrument technician occupation. (Transcript Required)
 Yes
 No


4.
GS-05 Grade Determination:
I have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-04) which demonstrates the following KSAs related to the duties of the position to be filled:  Knowledge of basic medical terminology; ability to learn the components, operating characteristics, and settings of the equipment to be used; ability to learn typical patient reactions to the basic procedures involved and ability to recognize signs of distress; ability to learn the standard positions for the procedure being conducted; ability to communicate orally and in writing, and other characteristics related to the duties of the position to be filled.  This would be experience in operating equipment related to the particular specialization for which application is made or in related functional areas.  Experience gained in the operation of equipment for animal diagnosis or treatment may be credited through this grade level. OR Education: Successful completion of 4 academic years above high school leading to a bachelor's degree with courses related to the occupation, or a bachelor's degree in a major field of study appropriate to medical instrument technician functions. (Transcript Required)
 Yes
 No


5.
GS-6 Grade Determination:
Experience: I have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-05) which demonstrates the following KSAs related to the duties of the position to be filled:  Knowledge of standard medical terminology to interpret physician orders or instructions; knowledge of common physical disabilities and ability to position patients for the examination or treatment; ability to learn the normal and abnormal results for routine procedures to recognize and report obvious abnormalities; ability to operate the equipment to administer routine/standard diagnostic treatment or procedures; ability to perform standard operator maintenance on the equipment including the ability to disassemble, clean, reassemble, and calibrate the machine.
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-7 Grade Determination: Experience.
I have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-06) which demonstrates the KSAs related to the duties of the position to be filled: Skill in setting up, operating, and performing calibrations as required on a variety of dialysis equipment; skill in performing and interpreting test results (dialysate chemistries, water treatment testing for contaminates, etc.) including the ability to analyze deviations from the expected norm and responding appropriately; knowledge of American Association of Medical Instrumentation (AMMI) standards and unit policies as they relate to water treatment; knowledge of physiological and psychological changes and conditions related to end stage renal disease; ability to calculate dialysis baths according to the physician's orders per patient by mixing critical concentrates, i.e., calcium, potassium, and bicarbonate; knowledge of Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS).
 Yes
 No


7.
GS-8 Grade Determination:

Assignment. This represents the full performance level. At this level the hemodialysis technician serves as a member of a dialysis team performing dialysis on acutely ill patients including those within an intensive care setting. Assignments involve performing both peritoneal and hemodialysis procedures. The dialysis technician may participate in percutaneous renal biopsies, watching the patient during the procedure and properly processing the specimen. Assists the physician in peritoneal catheter insertions and observes the patient for vital signs and provides post operative care. Provides instruction and monitors patients for home dialysis. Performs training of physicians, nurses, and technicians on hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis techniques

I have at least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-07) which demonstrates the KSAs related to the duties of the position to be filled: Ability to assist the physician in more complex procedures such as central venous catheter insertion; ability to assist in training patients in home/self-care by teaching components of machine operation including water treatment and monitoring patients for compliance; ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower graded technicians; ability to analyze deviations from the expected, determine whether the deviations are machine or patient related, and respond according to the findings.  This includes experience which provided knowledge of the equipment, standard procedures, and typical machine problems and/or patient reactions to treatment.

 Yes
 No


8.
Preferred Certification. Licensure or Certification is not required for this occupation; however, it is STRONGLY DESIRED AND RECOMMENDED at this grade level as evidence of possession of the essential knowledge, skills, and abilities. Training which does not result in official certification does not meet this definition.
Registration by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) as a registered Cardiovascular Invasive Specialist (RCIS)
Basic Cardiac Life Support (BCLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) certifications are also desirable for employees at this level.
Do you have one of the certifications listed? To receive credit, you must attach a copy/copies to your application.
 Yes
 No


9.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


Application Package Notification & Important Information

We appreciate your interest in available positions within the Miami VA Healthcare System.  It is our goal to forward every eligible and qualified candidate for consideration. Due to the nature of our systems, it is imperative that your application package be accurate and complete.  Therefore, prior to finalizing your application package and submitting for consideration: 
Ensure all documents are appropriately selected, are legible, and have uploaded successfully (we recommend viewing them a second time to ensure no errors have occurred in the process).  Missing documents may cause your application package to be ineligible for consideration.
Ensure that all responses to the assessment questions are accurate and correctly reflect your current situation.  Question responses are used in determining if you meet specific eligibility and qualification requirements.
 Please Note:  Until the closing date of the announcement, you can update or edit your package.  However, once your application package is submitted and the announcement period closes, we are unable to add documentation or alter your responses.  By submitting your package for consideration, you are attesting that your application package is complete and accurate. Some helpful tips:*Resume - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Grade Level (for federal positions)
Duties (be as detailed as possible and ensure they demonstrate how you meet the specialized experience and/or Knowledge, Skills and Abilities required for the position)
 Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2019 to April 2020)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
*Education - If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application. *Veteran's Preference - In order to receive appropriate preference consideration, you must submit proper documentation if you are claiming eligibility for Veteran's preference, which includes a copy of your DD-214 (Member Copy 4 or earlier version that shows character of service). Applicant's claiming 10-point preference should also submit an SF-15, Application for 10-point Veteran's Preference along with the required documentation listed on the SF-15 form (such as verification of service-connected disability percentage).

 *Current or former VA or Federal Employees - You must submit a copy of a current and/or highest grade held SF-50 - Notification of Personnel Action (not an award SF50) *Proof of current certification, licensure, or registration (if applicable). https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/students/transcripts/ https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/how-to/account/documents/resume/build/ https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/faq/application/documents/resume/what-to-include/


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙