Position Title
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (Instructor)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-12945430-26-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The basic requirements for employment as a VHA Blind Rehabilitation Specialist are prescribed by the Blind Rehabilitation Specialist Qualification Standard - GS-0601 - March 13, 2019 (formerly VA Handbook 5005/109, Part II, Appendix G41) . To qualify for appointment as a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist in VHA, all applicants must meet the following.


1.
Basic Education - Applicants must meet one of the following minimum education requirements to qualify as a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist (BRS):
A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university with a major field of study in blind or vision rehabilitation, closely related program in rehabilitation, special education for the visually impaired, family and consumer science education, or technology and industrial arts education; -OR-
A bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (without a major field of study as outlined above) that included, or was supplemented by, at least one of the following:
At least 30 semester hours of directly related, upper level undergraduate courses (e.g., at least 200-course level or higher, or as identified by the college or university).
One full year of directly related graduate level coursework (typically at least 15 - 18 semester hours).
A certificate from an accredited college or university in the core curriculum in orientation and mobility, vision rehabilitation therapy, assistive technology for blind and visually impaired individuals, or low vision therapy and a directly related practicum/internship in the occupation, either included in the degree or post-degree.
Foreign Graduates must have proof of a minimum of a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university (or foreign equivalent, as verified through an independent credential evaluation company), with a specialization in blind rehabilitation.
You must submit a copy of your Transcripts with your application. The copy of Transcripts may be official or unofficial, however should contain Your Name, the Institutions Name, City and State as well as the Degree earned and the DATE the degree was conferred.
 Yes, I meet one of the Basic Education Requirements as described above.
 No, I do NOT meet any of the Basic Education Requirements and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS: Select the statement below that best describes your ability to meet the requirements for a Blind Rehabilitation Specialist position.

NOTE - In addition to the education and experience required at each grade level below, the candidate must also demonstrate all of the Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) as listed within the Qualifications section of this vacancy announcement. The KSA's for each grade level may also be reviewed within the GS-0601 - Blind Rehabilitation Specialist Qualification Standard.


2.

Blind Rehabilitation Specialist - GS-09 (Entry Level)

Experience - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, applicants must possess a Bachelor's degree and completion of one (1) year of experience.

-OR-

Education - Completion of at least two full years of progressive graduate education or a master's degree in a field directly related to the position.

-In addition to the experience and education above the candidate must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for the GS-09 level:
(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of the blind/vision rehabilitation service.
(b) Knowledge of administration and interpretation of assessments and evaluations in blind/vision rehabilitation.
(c) Ability to develop a basic written blind/vision rehabilitation plan from assessment results and develop more complex plans with consultation from supervisor.
(d) Skill in instructing [Veterans] and families in a meaningful rehabilitation program and applying blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic techniques.
(e) Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision prosthetic devices for Veterans within the scope of practice.
(f) Ability to serve as team coordinator for assigned Veterans during their rehabilitation programs.
Do you possess the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the KSAs required to be appointed at the GS-09 grade level?
 Yes, I possess a Bachelor's degree or higher AND meet the one (1) year of experience. Additionally, I meet the KSA's required at the GS-09 level.
 Yes, I have completed at least two (2) full years of progressive graduate education or a master's degree in a field directly related to the position. Additionally, I meet the KSA's required at the GS-09 level.
 No, I DO NOT meet either of the Grade Education/Experience requirements, and/or I do NOT meet the KSA's required at the GS-09 level and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration.


3.
Blind Rehabilitation Specialist - GS-11 (Full Performance Level) 

Experience - In addition to meeting the basic requirements, completion of one (1) year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-9 grade.

-OR-

Education - Three years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a Doctoral Degree; or Doctoral Degree in Blind Rehabilitation or a directly related field.

-AND-

Certification  - Certification is required at the GS-11 grade level and above. Staff BRS candidates must meet the certification requirements as stated within the Qualifications section of this announcement and/or the GS-0601 Qualification Standard. BRSs at the GS-11 grade level must have at least one certification from ACVREP or a related, equivalent, professional certification.

***CANDIDATES MUST POSSESS ONE UNRESTRICTED ACVREP CERTIFICATE (O&M, CVRT, CLVT, CATIS) AT THE GS-11 LEVEL***

In addition to the education and experience above the candidate must demonstrate all the following Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) for the GS-11 level:
(a) Knowledge and understanding of highly specialized complex evaluations and diagnostic tests and procedures of blind/vision rehabilitation.
(b) Ability to properly assess Veterans having diverse and multiple disabilities to make recommendations for blind/vision rehabilitation therapeutic interventions.
(c) Skill in writing a blind/vision rehabilitation plan that includes evaluation information from multiple disciplines with observable, measurable goals and that identifies specific outcomes.
(d) Skill in instructional methods and learning principles.
(e) Ability to employ interventions and unusual motivational techniques and coordinate treatment with other professionals to achieve outcomes of the rehabilitation plan.
(f) Ability to recommend appropriate blind/vision rehabilitation prosthetic devices for Veterans within scope of practice, making adaptations and modifications as required.
Do you possess either the Experience -OR- Education -AND- the Certification -AND- Do you meet the KSAs required to be appointed at the GS-11 grade level?

CERTIFICATION::  Applicants must possess at least one active, current, full and unrestricted certification to be eligible for appointment at the GS-11 level and above.

Certification must be granted by the Academy for Certification of Vision Rehabilitation & Education Professionals (ACVREP), or another equivalent, closely related professional credential in special education or rehabilitation.

NOTE: The ACVREP administers four certification programs: Low Vision Therapy, Orientation and Mobility, Assistive Technology Instruction and Vision Rehabilitation Therapy. BRS who provide the following service must obtain certification granted by ACVREP and may use the designation for the certification they hold (as listed below):
Orientation and mobility training - Certified Orientation and Mobility Specialists (COMS).
Communication and daily living therapy - Certified Vision Rehabilitation Therapists (CVRT).
Low vision therapy - Certified Low Vision Therapists (CLVT).
Assistive Technology - Certified Assistive Technology Instructional Specialists (CATIS).
Do you possess the Certification (REQUIRED for GS-11 level and above) as described in one of the preceding options?

Please submit your ACVREP Certification with your application.
 Yes, I meet the Experience -OR- the Education -AND- the Certification Requirements. Additionally, I meet the KSAs at the GS-11 level.
 No, I DO NOT meet the Experience -OR- Education, AND/OR I do NOT meet the Certification Requirement, AND/OR I do NOT meet the KSA's at the GS-11 level and acknowledge that my application may not receive further consideration at the GS-11 level.


Resume Reminder: Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: - Job title - Duties (be as detailed as possible) - Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) - Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy.  We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Transcripts Reminder: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) you must submit a copy of your transcripts (official or unofficial) with your application. Be sure your name, name of the school attended, dates attended, and any degree conferred, or certificate issued is stated on the transcript. This information is used to verify qualifications and accreditation.

Professional License and/or Certification Reminder: You must submit a copy of a current active license or certification. Expired certifications will not be considered.

REMINDER Current, permanent federal employees must submit recent SF-50 from the past 12 months which clearly shows current, permanent federal eligibility. Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
General adjustment/Cost of living Increase
Within grade increases at the highest grade held
Promotions SF-50's at the highest grade held within the past year
Cash Award, benefit changes or time off Awards 50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙