Position Title
Engineering Technician (Drafting)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDE-26-13031531 DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Engineering Technician (Drafting) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have six months of general experience which includes (1) any type of work which demonstrates my ability to perform the work of the position; OR (2) experience that provided a familiarity using computer-aided software to create drawings or to depict objects/features AND six months of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-03 grade level in the Federal service which includes technical work in drafting. Specialized experience can be for either an academic setting or on-the-job, including internships. (Must be clearly documented in resume to be referred to selection panel).
 I have successfully completed two years of education above the high school level that included at least 12 semester hours in any combination of courses such as engineering, engineering or industrial technology, construction, physics, drafting, surveying, physical science, or mathematics. At least 3 of the 12 semester hours must have been in drafting. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the general and/or specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education above the high school level but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-05 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service which includes using computer-aided software to create engineering drawings or to depict objects/features. Specialized experience can be for either an academic setting or on-the-job, including internships. (Tailor resume to clearly highlight this specific experience). Ask how your student class schedule can be accommodated if actively pursuing a relevant degree.
 I have successfully completed a full four-year course of study leading to a bachelor's degree (a) with major study in an appropriate field of engineering, construction, or industrial technology; OR (b) that included at least 24 semester hours in any combination of courses such as engineering, engineering or industrial technology, construction, physics, drafting, surveying, physical science, or mathematics. At least 6 of the 24 semester hours must have been in drafting. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have some education leading to a bachelor's degree but less than required in B. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100% (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. Then, divide your semester hours of education beyond two years (total semester hours minus 60) by 60. Add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the experience as described in A AND the education described in B. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-06 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience using computer-aided drafting systems to update basic to complex engineering drawings and models for projects focused on civil, structural, architectural, mechanical, and/or electrical designs. (Experience must be clearly documented in resume to be referred to selection panel.)
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


4.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-07 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience reviewing drawings and models for completeness, accuracy, and conformance to requirements, and using computer-aided design to revise and produce basic engineering drawings and models from sketches for projects focused on civil, structural, architectural, mechanical, and/or electrical designs. (Experience must be clearly documented in resume to be referred to selection panel.)
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


5.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-08 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service which includes experience using computer-aided design to produce complex engineering drawings and 3D models from sketches, and performing field visits to ascertain design requirements and as-constructed conditions for projects focused on civil, structural, architectural, mechanical, and/or electrical designs. (Experience must be clearly documented in resume to be referred to selection panel.)
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


6.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-09 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-08 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Developing 3D BIM/CIM models, design drawings and detailed layouts with DETAILED instructions from engineers; 2) Review of models and design drawings from others; AND 3) Mentor & train on 2D/3D CAD platforms. (This specific experience and level of independence must be clearly documented in your resume to be referred to selection panel for consideration).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


7.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-10 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Developing 3D BIM/CIM models, design drawings and detailed layouts, and basic feature sizing with MINIMAL instructions from engineers 2) Review of models and design drawings from others 3) Mentor & train on BIM/CIM in a single platform AND 4) Lead other engineering technician (CADD Lead) in multi-discipline projects. (This specific experience and level of independence must be clearly documented in your resume to be referred to selection panel for consideration).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


8.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Engineering Technician (Drafting) at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-10 grade level in the Federal service which includes 1) Independently developing 3D BIM/CIM models, design drawings and detailed layouts in multiple platforms with VERY BASIC instructions 2) Review of models and design drawings from others 3) Mentor & train on BIM/CIM in multiple platforms AND 4) Lead other engineering technician (CADD Lead) in multi-discipline projects. (This specific experience and level of independence must be clearly documented in your resume to be referred to selection panel for consideration).
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


9.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙