Position Title
Lead Dental Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-12991904-26-MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 24, 2026 to Jul 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position, you must meet the Basic Requirements as well as any additional grade-level qualification requirements. Please select the appropriate response as it pertains to your qualifications for the following questions.



Basic Requirements: To qualify for appointment to this position, all applicants must possess the following:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Are you proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. 7403(f)?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and/or Education: Must have six months experience that demonstrates the applicant's ability to perform the work, or provides familiarity with the work

~OR~

Successful completion of a 1-year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association's Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA)

~OR~

Experience/Education Combination: Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying.

Select the appropriate answer based on your level of experience and/or education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. (A transcript must be submitted with your application if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education).
 I possess six (6) months experience that demonstrates my ability to perform the work, or provides me familiarity with the work.
 I successfully completed a 1-year dental assistant program accredited by the American Dental Association’s Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA).
 I possess an equivalent combination of the listed experience and education above.
 My education and/or experience are not reflected above.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding your one (1) year dental assistant program you successfully completed from which you meet the basic requirement above. If you did not attend a dental assistant program, please indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Major/Program title:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Certification of Radiologic Competence: Public Law 97-35 requires that persons who administer radiologic procedures meet the credentialing standards in 42 CFR Part 75. You must have successfully completed an educational program that meets or exceeds the standards described in that regulation, and is accredited by an organization recognized by the Department of Education, and be certified as radiographers in their field. To fulfill this requirement, you must meet one of the following:
Successful completion of the Dental Radiation Health and Safety Examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board, Inc.
Successful completion of the Principles and Practice of Dental Radiology and Radiographic Safety courses and examinations developed by the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Dentistry.
Successful completion of a radiation health and safety program or examination approved by a state board of dentistry or the Department of Defense (DoD).
Please select the appropriate answer.
 I successfully completed the Dental Radiation Health and Safety Examination administered by the Dental Assisting National Board, Inc.
 I successfully completed the Principles and Practice of Dental Radiology and Radiographic Safety courses and examinations developed by the Assistant Under Secretary for Health for Dentistry.
 I successfully completed a radiation health and safety program or examination approved by a state board of dentistry or the Department of Defense (DoD).
 I do not meet the certification requirement described above.


3a.
Please provide the following certification information as it pertains to the provisions for certification of Radiologic Competence. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified, indicate N/A.

Certifying Organization Name:
Complete certificate number:
Date certificate awarded:
Date of expiration:


Grade Level Requirements - Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Certification by the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB): The American Dental Association (ADA) recognizes DANB as the national certification for Dental Assistants and is required for all positions above the full performance level of GS-6.

Do you possess certification by the Dental Assisting National Board (DANB)?
 Yes
 No


4a.
Please provide your certification information. If you are not certified and do not expect to become certified, indicate N/A.

Name on certificate:
Certification Type:
Complete certificate number:
Date certificate awarded:
Date of expiration:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
GS-07 Lead Dental Assistant: In addition to meeting the basic requirements, to qualify for the GS-7, do you possess at least one (1) year of experience equivalent to the next lower grade level of GS-6?
 Yes
 No


6.
GS-07 Lead Dental Assistant - Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to meeting the experience requirement for the GS-7, do you possess the following KSAs?
Advanced knowledge of dental assisting across multiple areas of practice, and demonstrated ability to provide guidance to staff dental assistants.
Skill in coordinating clinical work flow and assignments.
Ability to assist in dental program development, outcome management, and strategic planning.
Skill in acting as liaison between staff dental assistants and the supervisor.
Ability to provide professional oversight and consultation for staff dental assistants.
 Yes
 No


RESUME REMINDER - Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
Job title
Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

CERTIFICATION REMINDER- Please provide a copy of your certifications to demonstrate you meet the basic requirements of the position posted.

TRANSCRIPT REMINDER- If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.

SF-50 REMINDER- If you are a current federal employee, or a former employee with reinstatement rights, you MUST submit a copy of your most recent SF-50 or your separation/ resignation SF-50. This SF-50 needs to show your current or last grade, step, wage, and title. Please do not submit a bonus or award SF-50. A promotion, General wage adjudication, Step- progression or a separation SF-50 are the preferred SF-50's. Your federal employment status cannot be verified without this document, and you will be disqualified for not meeting the area of consideration if you do not provide the documentation.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙