Position Title
Senior Resident Inspector
Agency
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Announcement Number
IMP-12945708-26-MT Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 28, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
NRC Employee

Are you a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee on a permanent appointment?

To verify eligibility as a current Nuclear Regulatory Commission employee, you must submit a recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) that reflects your current grade and tenure code.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Monticello, MN
 B. Hancocks Bridge, NJ


2.
This space is available if you would like to supply any additional information to assist in evaluating you for this position.


Assessment 1
1.
Select the statement that best describes your education and experience to perform the work of this engineering position. NOTE: You must submit a copy of college transcripts with your application.
 I have successfully completed a bachelor’s degree (or higher) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience qualifying for this position. The adequacy of such background is demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. 2. Written Test -- I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in answer choice A. or 4. Related curriculum -- I completed curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field AND I have at least one year of professional engineering experience.
 My experience and/or education is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
GG-14 - Select the statement that best describes your experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of this position at the GG/GS-14 grade level or equivalent pay band.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement at the GG/GS-13 (or higher) grade level or equivalent that includes knowledge and experience in nuclear plant operations, systems, integrated facility operations, and design.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as outlined in the job announcement.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙