Position Title
Supervisory Recreation Specialist
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12928954 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 02, 2026 to Apr 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the professional certifications to qualify for Supervisory Recreation Specialist  position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Responses must be documented on your resume to receive credit.


1.
How many years of knowledge and experience do you have documented on your resume managing all daily operations of comprehensive of Single Sailor and Fleet Recreation Program to include: planning, creating programs, scheduling, training a team, hiring, coordinating, hosting, and maintaining assessments for all programs?
 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.


2.
How much knowledge and/or experience do you have in budgeting for multiple activities and in analyzing cost income and expenses and bottom lines of financial statements documented on your resume?
 I have two or more years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have less than 2 years documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.
 I have no documented knowledge and/or experience in analyzing cost income to achieve a self-supporting operation/program.


3.
Are you available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events?
 Yes, I am available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events
 No, I am not available for an irregular tour, which includes weekend and/or holiday work to cover all operational hours and special events


4.
How many years of experience and/ or education that demonstrates work experience directly related to the duties of the position? *Experience must be documented on resume to receive credit and/or transcripts must be uploaded*
 I have 5+ years of experience and/ or education in the related field.
 I have 3+ years of experience and/ or education in the related field.
 I have less than 3 years of experience and/or education in the related field.


5.
Do you have a current and valid state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙