Position Title
ALCOHOL & TOBACCO TAX SPECIALIST
Agency
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
Announcement Number
26-TTB-12892483 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 25, 2026 to Mar 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current TTB employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service, with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement under any of the following categories?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


3.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
Are you a current TTB employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
 Current TTB employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
 Current TTB employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 I am currently a Treasury Career Transition Assistance Program eligible. (I will provide the information required as described in the "Required Documents" section of this announcement.)
 I do not fit in any of the categories above and am therefore not eligible to apply to this announcement.


Assessment 1
To qualify for this position as a GS-09, you must meet the specialized experience requirements for this position with at least one (1) full year of experience at the GS-07 level, or equivalent. This experience, as provided below, should have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities required to perform the duties of the position successfully. This specialized experience includes:

- Reviewing reports, tax returns, or other documents to determine discrepancies, irregularities, diversion, or fraudulent submissions.

OR
Education: A master's or equivalent graduate degree or two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or an LL.B. or J.D., if related.

OR
A combination of experience and education: To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement, must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 18 semester hours (27 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-07 level as described above.
 I have successfully completed two full academic years of progressively higher graduate level education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree. (In order to be creditable, education must be related to this position.
 I have a combination of education and experience that together qualify me for this position.
 I do not meet or exceed the required specialized experience, education, or combination of experience and education as described above.


2.
Please state the job title(s) and/or degree details and dates wherein you acquired the specialized experience. (Ensure these dates and details can be found in your resume, and that you supply transcripts for related degrees if you are qualifying with education.


To qualify for this position as a GS-11 you must meet the specialized experience requirements for this position with at least one (1) full year of experience at the GS-09 level, or equivalent. This experience, as provided below, should have equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities required to perform the duties of the position successfully. This specialized experience includes:

- Evaluating applications seeking permission to commence, change or terminate business under laws and regulations relating to regulated industries; AND
- Analyzing transaction reports, variance requests, or tax returns to detect discrepancies, irregularities, diversion, or fraudulent documents.

OR
Education: A Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, three full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M., if related.

OR
A combination of experience and education: To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement, must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate level education in excess of the first 36 semester hours (54 quarter hours) may be combined to be considered for qualifying education.


3.
Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the GS-09 level as described above.
 I have three years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree or equivalent doctoral degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience that together qualify me for this position.
 I do not meet or exceed the required specialized experience, education, or combination of experience and education as described above.


4.
Please state the job title(s) and/or degree details and dates wherein you acquired the specialized experience. (Ensure these dates and details can be found in your resume, and that you supply transcripts for related degrees if you are qualifying with education.


5.
Indicate the response or responses that describe your experience in writing.
 A. I have prepared summary reports based on research findings.
 B. I have provided input on reports, analyses, position papers, briefing papers, directives, policy statements, or budget proposals for high-level management (division level and higher).
 C. I have written presentation materials.
 D. I have written policies or regulations for an office setting.
 E. I have prepared memoranda and documents for field personnel, members of a regulated industry, and the public.
 F. None of the above


6.
Choose the statement or statements that describe your experience writing regulations, procedures, policies, correspondence, and other materials.
 A. I have developed operating instructions and internal directives for an investigative organization.
 B. I have prepared analytical summaries, justifications, reports, and/or articles for periodicals, briefs, or proposals.
 C. I have provided reviews and comments on changes in regulations, procedures, industry circulars, newsletter articles, or policy statements.
 D. I have written technical material targeted for the alcohol or tobacco industry.
 E. I have written detailed narrative reports, including inspection or regulation reports.
 F. I have written position papers on new or revised regulations.
 G. I have answered congressional correspondence on technical information.
 H. I have written correspondence to industry members on industry-related information.
 I. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


7.
I have experience creating the following products.
 A. Policy papers/statements (including briefing and position papers)
 B. Investigative reports
 C. Detailed narrative reports
 D. Technical correspondence
 E. Research and analytical studies
 F. Reports of audits
 G. Internal memoranda
 H. PowerPoint or other software-created presentations
 I. Industry circulars
 J. Newsletters or internet articles
 K. Other published material
 L. None of the above


8.
I have experience researching rules, laws, or regulations to resolve issues or problems and provide advice to the public or internal customers.
 Yes
 No


9.
Select the choice or choices that describe your experience maintaining and promoting working relationships with others.
 A. I have established working relationships with managers, supervisors, and co-workers that foster progress for the organization.
 B. I have led efforts to build new or improve on existing working relationships with managers, supervisors, and co-workers.
 C. I have served on teams with established working relationships between managers, supervisors, and co-workers.
 D. I have developed programs to promote productive working relationships between managers, supervisors, and co-workers.
 E. I have not performed the above tasks.


10.
Indicate the answer or answers that represent your experience communicating orally.
 A. I have experience answering phones in a work setting.
 B. I have experience explaining non-technical information to others.
 C. I have experience explaining technical information in a manner that is well understood by others.
 D. I have experience presenting recommendations to a supervisor.
 E. I have experience expressing my disagreement on a work issue to a fellow co-worker.
 F. I have experience expressing my disagreement on a work issue to a supervisor.
 G. I have experience presenting technical information in a public setting (e.g., lectures, presentations, job fairs).
 H. None of the above


11.
I have experience soliciting information in person or by phone to gather data or necessary facts.
 Yes
 No


12.
Choose the statement or statements that describe your experience performing studies of policies, programs, and practices as a foundation for developing comprehensive plans.
 A. I have participated in analyzing the feasibility of establishing a new division within an office for a major regulatory program.
 B. I have been involved in analyzing the processes, structures, or problems of a program for needed improvements in an existing regulatory program.
 C. I have conducted research involving a program's application of laws, regulations, and directives.
 D. I have assisted in conducting office reviews and audits to identify specific needs and problems.
 E. I have been responsible for tracking and monitoring activities related to an organization's administrative policies and business practices.
 F. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


13.
Select the statement that best identifies the highest level of experience you have researching and analyzing data.
 I have experience researching laws, regulations, and procedures from sources to assimilate, summarize, and apply the results to an investigation.
 I have experience summarizing information after researching laws, regulations, and procedures.
 I have experience participating in group assignments or projects that involved assisting others with researching laws, regulations, and procedures, and then summarizing the findings.
 I have not performed any of the above.


14.
Indicate the response or responses that describe your experience analyzing and interpreting financial data.
 A. I have experience reviewing data and providing recommendations to resolve account discrepancies.
 B. I have experience working with subsidiary systems (e.g., for procurement, travel, labor, bankcard, accounts receivable, or accounts payable) that interface with a federal financial system.
 C. I have experience reviewing, analyzing, maintaining, and reconciling subsidiary and general ledgers.
 D. I have experience applying professional accounting principles, theories, concepts, and techniques.
 E. None of the above


15.
Select the one statement that best describes your experience participating in the formulation of policies.
 I have developed and coordinated agency orders, directives, or policies that required interpretation of laws, regulations, and administrative policies.
 I have participated as a specialist or team member in the development of agency orders, directives, or policies.
 I have participated as a specialist or team member in the development of 'how-to' or other procedural desk guides for agency, program, or bureau-level use.
 I have interpreted and applied an agency's or organization's policies and guides in support of orders, directives, or policies.
 None of the above


16.
I have experience researching and evaluating information for completeness, accuracy, and conformance with requirements.
 Yes
 No


17.
Choose the one statement that best identifies your highest level of experience relating to the alcohol or tobacco industry.
 I have conducted field investigations of alcohol or tobacco industry members.
 I have worked for or with an agency that regulates alcohol or tobacco industry members.
 I have worked for or with alcohol or tobacco industry members.
 None of the above


18.
I have work experience reviewing data for mathematical accuracy and validity in financial documents or accounts.
 Yes
 No


19.
I have experience analyzing statistical information, transaction reports and documentation for accuracy, compliance, and correctness.
 Yes
 No


20.
Choose the statement or statements that identify your experience managing programs.
 A. I have reviewed work of programs for technical accuracy, soundness of judgment, and effectiveness.
 B. I have established and executed priorities and schedules.
 C. I have reviewed proposed documents forwarded for comment by other offices within the organization to ensure consistency with established policy involving a regulated commodity or industry.
 D. I have planned tasks or actions supporting a project or program.
 E. I have liaised with other segments of the organization, government agencies, international and domestic associations, and the public.
 F. I have applied resources to accomplish objectives.
 G. I have been responsible for meeting organizational deadlines on behalf of an organization or workgroup.
 H. I have overseen the administrative operations and internal controls of program objectives and priorities.
 I. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


21.
Indicate all the guidelines you have experience using.
 A. Code of Federal Regulations
 B. Internal Revenue Code
 C. Treasury Department policies
 D. Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau policy and procedure publications
 E. Technical documentation prepared by alcohol or tobacco industry-related vendors or specialists
 F. I have not used any of the above guidelines.


22.
Choose all the software packages, programs, or programming languages you have used to research data, develop, and maintain automated databases and conduct trend analysis.
 A. Word-processing software (e.g., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect, or similar)
 B. Spreadsheet software (e.g., Microsoft Excel, Quattro, Google Sheets, or similar)
 C. Database software (e.g., Microsoft Access, Knack, or similar)
 D. Data querying and analytics software (e.g., MySQL, MongoDB, Discoverer, SAS Enterprise Guide, Oracle, or similar
 E. None of the above


23.
Select the one statement that best reflects how you organize and prioritize your work.
 I work on one project or assignment at a time before beginning the next. I attempt to complete the assignment in a timely manner.
 I identify the highest priority of multiple assignments and complete that assignment before beginning the next. I usually complete the assignment in a timely manner.
 I work on multiple tasks or assignments simultaneously and usually complete these assignments earlier than the deadline.
 None of the above


24.
I have work experience retrieving information by searching databases for records or reports.
 Yes
 No


25.
Choose the statement or statements that describe your experience researching, analyzing, and evaluating laws, regulations, rulings, statistical data, and technical reports to complete studies and assist in the development of agency policies.
 A. I have planned, developed, and coordinated operations, programs and initiatives pertaining to the alcohol or tobacco industry.
 B. I have planned and directed studies and surveys.
 C. I have developed measurement criteria to assess the effectiveness of a team's activities with other departments or organizations.
 D. I have coordinated a team's activities with other departments or organizations.
 E. I have conducted, overseen, or coordinated the case processing of multi-national or international inspections and investigations pertaining to the alcohol or tobacco industry.
 F. I have participated in programs and projects involving studies of processes, problems, and initiatives relating to this area and associated activities in federal, state, local, and international enforcement and regulatory agencies and organizations.
 G. I have participated on task forces and working groups that cross multi-functional lines within a bureau, require participation of one or more directorates, and/or involve other federal, state, local, or international authorities.
 H. I have developed or coordinated policy, regulation decisions, and adverse actions based on review and discussion with management officials in an agency and others that significantly impact the alcohol or tobacco industry and the public.
 I. I have analyzed program comments provided by an array of sources (e.g. industry representatives, the public, field personnel, or other federal, state, and foreign government agencies and organizations) to develop program improvements.
 J. I have reviewed and evaluated violations in reports of investigations and inspections for appropriate administrative, civil, or criminal action to be taken.
 K. I have participated in plans and analysis regarding an organization's budget formulation and execution process.
 L. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


26.
I have experience researching and interpreting instructions, guidelines, and procedures to determine appropriate actions.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙