Position Title
Production Machinery Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12999190-P Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 08, 2026 to Jul 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a displaced Federal employee eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  Click ICTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


4.
When U.S. Mint completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other Treasury bureaus. I opt in to having this information shared with additional Treasury bureaus who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by this Treasury bureau. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional Treasury bureaus.


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please choose the answer below which best reflects your experience or knowledge of either of the following manufacturing operations:
 I have experience making products from raw materials, including selecting materials, following manufacturing procedures, and producing finished items.
 I have experience in the assembly and/or repair of machine components, using diagrams or specifications to complete tasks.
 I have experience using battery powered or electrically powered manual tools in a work setting.
 I have experience operating cash registers, coin counters, or performing basic quality control checks.
 I do not have experience in any of the areas listed above.


2.
Please specify where this experience is documented in your resume (by indicating place of employment, job title and length of time performing the duties).


3.
Please choose the answer below that best reflects your training, knowledge, or experience in the following fields.
 I have experience or training in all the following areas: metal working or automotive maintenance; sorting or separating components/products; commercial food industry work; and construction, building, or landscaping.
 I have experience or training in several of the listed areas, such as metal working/automotive maintenance and construction, or sorting/separating and commercial food industry work, but not all.
 I have experience or training in one or two of the listed areas, such as sorting/separating or basic construction/landscaping, but limited overall experience.
 I have minimal experience in only one listed area, such as commercial food industry work or basic automotive maintenance.
 I have no experience in any of the areas described above


4.
Please choose the answers below that describe your experience or knowledge in production and manufacturing:
 I have experience conducting repair and/or maintenance on tools or machines, and regularly perform inspections, operations, and cleaning as part of my duties.
 I have experience operating machines or tools as part of regular duties and performing visual inspections but have limited experience with repairs or maintenance.
 I routinely perform visual inspections and cleaning of tools or machines but have limited experience operating them or performing repairs.
 I have experience only with basic cleaning or sanitizing of tools or machines.
 I have no experience in any of the activities described above.


5.
Please choose the duties with which you have experience, knowledge or training:
 I have experience in all the following: knowledge of various types of machinery, recognizing defects in equipment or products, inspecting products for quality, and using tools as part of my regular duties.
 I have experience in several of the listed areas, such as recognizing defects, inspecting products for quality, or using tools, but not all.
 I have experience in one or two of the listed areas, such as basic product inspection or using simple tools, but limited overall experience.
 I have only minimal experience in one area, such as using tools or recognizing basic defects.
 I have no experience in any of the duties described above.


6.
Please choose the following answer that best describes your experience regarding carrying out instructions.
 I have experience in all the following: interpreting instructions and specifications; adjusting to frequent changes in specifications or instructions; following written and verbal instructions; and receiving instructions using a computer.
 I have experience in several of the listed areas, such as interpreting instructions and following written/verbal directions, but not all.
 I have experience in one or two of the listed areas, such as following written instructions or receiving instructions by computer, but I have limited experience overall.
 I have only basic experience in one area, such as following simple written or verbal instructions.
 I have no experience in any of the duties described above.


7.
Please choose from the following work you have done or have knowledge in production and manufacturing:
 I have experience in all the following: building or construction; woodworking or carpentry; assembling, packaging, boxing, or inventory of products; and metal machine operations.
 I have experience in several of the listed areas, such as building/construction and carpentry, or assembling/packaging and metal machine operations, but not all.
 I have experience in at least one or two of the listed areas, such as assembling/packaging or basic construction work, but limited experience overall.
 I have very limited experience and have only performed tasks in one basic area, such as assembling/packaging or simple carpentry.
 I have no experience in any of the areas described above.


8.
Choose the answer below, that best describes your experience following safety protocols in work settings.
 I have experience following safety protocols in all the following: lifting, ladder safety, handling tools and small equipment, and operating large or heavy equipment.
 I have experience following safety protocols in several of the listed areas, such as lifting and ladder safety, or handling tools and operating heavy equipment, but not all.
 I have experience in one or two of the listed areas, such as lifting safety or handling small tools, but limited experience overall.
 I have very limited experience and only in one basic area, such as lifting or basic ladder safety.
 I have no experience in any of the safety protocols described above.


9.
Please select the answer below that best reflects the work you have performed or knowledge in production or manufacturing:
 I have experience performing assembly line operations and inspections, and experience troubleshooting equipment/machine errors, performing maintenance operations, and operating large machinery or commercial grade food preparation equipment.
 I have experience performing assembly line operations and inspections, and I have performed either troubleshooting or maintenance operations, but I have limited experience with large machinery or commercial grade food equipment.
 I have experience in one or more of the following: assembly/inspection, troubleshooting, or maintenance, but not all; and I have limited or no experience operating large machinery or commercial grade equipment.
 I have basic experience in only one area listed, such as assembly/inspection or operating large machinery/commercial grade food equipment, with no troubleshooting or maintenance experience.
 I have no experience in any of the areas described above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙