Position Title
Human Resources Specialist
Agency
Office of the Inspector General for Tax Administration
Announcement Number
26-TIGTA-12916671-X Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 20, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


Assessment 1
1.
I am applying for the Recent Graduates Program based on the following statement. Select the one statement that applies.
 I have, within the previous 2 years, completed all educational requirements for a qualifying, Associates, Bachelors, Masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying institution.
 I will have completed all educational requirements for a qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying institution within 9 months of application date.
 I am a veteran, who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to a Recent Graduates Program during a portion of my 2 year eligibility period. My eligibility period is extended to receive the full 2 years of eligibility. I understand that my eligibility period may not extend beyond 6 years from the date that all educational requirements were completed.
 None of the above.



Please state your expected graduation date.


Specialized experience for the GS-07 is one year at the level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service, which has equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience for this position includes applying basic human resources rules, regulations, and procedures in supporting delivery of human capital programs and/or operations.
Examples of such could include any of the following:
Assisting with human resources or administrative support functions; OR
Assisting with learning programs such as new employee onboarding and orientation; OR
Assisting with the development, review, or update of HR policies, procedures, or guidance documents; OR
Gathering and compiling data from systems, spreadsheets, or other sources to ensure accuracy and completeness; OR
Supporting the creation of dashboards, summaries, or briefings.
 


OR

You may substitute education for specialized experience as follows: I have successfully completed at least 1 full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) at an accredited college or university.ORYou may have a bachelors degree and meet one of the following requirements for superior academic achievement: A GPA of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study, or a GPA of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.

OR

You may qualify on a combination of education and experience. To combine education and experience, the total percentage of experience at the required grade level compared to the requirement, as well as the percentage of completed education compared to the requirement must equal at least 100 percent.



2.
Which of the following best describes your specialized experience/education for this position? 
 I have at least 1 full year of specialized experience as described in the previous question.
 I have successfully completed at least 1 full year of graduate level education (18 semester hours, 27 quarter hours or equivalent) in an accredited college or university.
 I have a combination of the education and experience listed above (1 and 2) in which my percentage of specialized experience and education totals to 100%. (For example: the completion of a 9 semester hours of graduate level education: 6 months specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level).
 I have a bachelors degree and meet one of the following requirements for superior academic achievement: A GPA of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all completed undergraduate courses or those completed in the last 2 years of study, or a GPA of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale for all courses in the major field of study or those courses in the major completed in the last 2 years of study, or rank in the upper one third of the class in the college, university, or major subdivision, or membership in a national honor society recognized by the Association of College Honor Societies.
 I do not meet the specialized experience as described in the previous question and do not meet the qualifying education as listed in the selections above.


3.

Make sure experience is clearly documented in your resume. Please give the dates/resume reference when you gained this experience/education so it may be found to ensure you receive proper credit.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙