Position Title
Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor (Program Manager) - Vet Center Director
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBZY-12883785-26-MEK Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 24, 2026 to Mar 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the department/service line indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you may be required submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Please review the instructions in the announcement.  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current permanent Federal employee from an agency other than Department of Veterans Affairs?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
In accordance with 38 U.S.C. 7402(d), No person shall serve in direct patient care positions unless they are proficient in basic written and spoken English. Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor (LPMHC) (Program Manager) - Vet Center Director position with the Readjustment Counseling Service.

The following questions will be used to determine your eligibility for placement consideration.

Please select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current situation.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: LPMHCs must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with VA Handbook 5005, Part II, chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3.j.

Are you proficient in spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Basic Education Requirements: To qualify for appointment as a LPMHC all applicants must hold a master's or doctoral degree in: Clinical Mental Health Counseling; Clinical Rehabilitation Counseling; or  a related field, from a program accredited by the Council on Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs (CACREP).

Examples of related mental health counseling fields include, but are not limited to: Addiction Counseling; Community Counseling; Gerontology Counseling; Marital, Couple, and Family Counseling. NOTE: Traditional Rehabilitation counseling programs that are accredited by CACREP do not meet the LPMHC qualification standards as Traditional Rehabilitation counseling differs from Clinical Rehabilitation counseling.

CACREP defines the date when graduates are considered to have graduated from a CACREP accredited program. Additional information may be obtained from http://www.cacrep.org/directory/. 

**Please note: Transcripts that show applicant name, school attended, degree earned and date conferred must be provided. Failure to include transcripts will result in being rated as ineligible for further consideration.

Do you meet this educational Requirement and have you submitted a legible copy of your transcripts?
 Yes, I meet the Basic Educational Requirements and have submitted a legible copy of my transcripts.
 No I do not meet the Basic Educational Requirements or have not submitted a legible copy of my transcripts.


2a.
Please provide the following Information regarding the academic institution from which you received your degree:
Name of Institution:   
City and State:
Degree earned: Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


3.
Basic Licensure Requirement: Persons hired or reassigned to LPMHC positions in the GS-0183 series in VHA must hold a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.

Do you possess a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment?

*Please note: A legible copy of your licensure must be provided. Failure to include your licensure will result in being rated as ineligible for further consideration. 
 Yes, I hold a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.
 No, I do not hold a full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.


3a.
Please provide the following Information regarding your Licensure.
Licensure Type:
State Issued:
Date Issued:
Expiration Date:


4.
GS-13 Grade Determination: In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met:

Experience, Education, and Licensure: Candidates must have:
At least one year of progressively complex experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level. The experience must demonstrate possession of advanced practice skills and judgment, demonstrating progressively more professional competency. ~AND~
Full, current and unrestricted license to independently practice as a Licensed Professional Mental Health Counselor, which includes diagnosis and treatment.
~AND~

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs): In addition to the basic requirements and the above listed experience, education and licensure grade requirements, the candidates must demonstrate all of the KSAs for both the GS-12 and GS-13 grades:

GS-12 KSAs (Your application must clearly demonstrate at least one full year of experience that reflects all the below GS-12 KSAs):
In depth knowledge of the program coordinated, and demonstrated knowledge and ability to write policies procedures and or practice guidelines for the program.
Making key decisions in the hiring and identification of top candidates.
Providing leadership in facilitating the process of coordinating program consults, assessments, admissions, care assignments and discharges.
Providing subject matter consultation to other colleagues and trainees within the field of counseling working on an interdisciplinary team.

GS-13 KSAs: 
Ability to make judgments and decisions associated with program management.
Ability to monitor program outcomes using data driven quality assurance process.
Ability to develop productivity standards appropriate to each service provided. 
Ability to manage a wide range of programs which include the operation and management of key clinical, training or administrative programs.

Do you meet all the above GS-13 Grade Determination Requirements and does your application clearly demonstrate experience that supports all the listed KSAs?
 Yes, I meet all the above GS-13 Grade Determination Requirements and my application clearly demonstrates experience that supports all the listed KSAs.
 No, I do not meet one or more of the GS-13 Grade Determination Requirements or I am unable to clearly demonstrate experience related to one or more of the listed KSAs.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙