Position Title
Paralegal Specialist
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12898795-26-FM Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 17, 2026 to Mar 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Paralegal Specialist position with the Federal government.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-09 Paralegal Specialist.

 I have at least one or more full-time years (12 months) of specialized work experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: Researching statutes, regulations, decisions, opinions, legislative history, and other legal Authorities; Coordinating the preparation and submission of correspondence, orders, and decisions in draft and final form; Providing status information on cases and answering specific procedural questions pertaining to the adjudication process; AND Scheduling prehearing conferences and hearings, including coordinating arrangements with parties and counsel, securing appropriate courtroom space, and/or making travel arrangement. (Your resume must CLEARLY demonstrate this experience if you select this option)
 I have successfully completed a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or 2 full academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree, or LL.B. or J.D., that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of the position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I have an appropriate combination of successfully completed graduate level education and experience. To determine combination, first compute experience as a percentage of the experience listed in A above; then determine education as a percentage of the education listed in B above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate education in excess two full years (18 hours) may be used to qualify. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above


2.
From the descriptions below, select the ONE response that BEST describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform as a GS-11 Paralegal Specialist

 I have at least one year of specialized experience at or equivalent to the GS-9 level in the Federal service performing the following: Reviewing, analyzing, and evaluating discovery motions, petitions to intervene, other pleadings, and proposed testimony and exhibits in advance of conferences or hearings and summarizes their contents, identifying pertinent facts, procedural aspects, laws, and issues involved; Making recommendations to staff concerning allegations, legal arguments, uncontested facts, appraisal of evidence, and inferences to be drawn; Reviewing legal documents upon initial receipt for statutory and regulatory compliance, to include proper certification, party representation, and timeliness; AND preparing legal memoranda, and drafts written decisions and orders.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or three (3) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree in law, business or government. NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts and identify qualifying coursework for verification.
 I have an appropriate combination of successfully completed graduate level education and experience. To determine combination, first compute experience as a percentage of the experience listed in A above; then determine education as a percentage of the education listed in B above; then add the two percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent. Only graduate education in excess two full years (36 hours) may be used to qualify. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcripts for verification.)
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙