Position Title
Wildland Firefighter (Engine Operator) Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Office of the Secretary of the Interior
Announcement Number
NPSFAM -26-12895053-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 09, 2026 to Apr 06, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


4.
Career Transition Assistance Plan:  Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced or surplused from the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which I have been or will be separated; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.   
 Yes
 No


5.
Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan: Do you meet ALL of the following eligibilities?
I am a current or former competitive federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of the Interior; AND
I am located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
I am currently in a position at the same grade level or higher than the position being announced; AND
My last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation showing proof of eligibility.  All required documentation will be outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Grand Canyon National Park - South Rim, Grand Canyon, AZ
 B. Mojave National Preserve, Essex, CA
 C. Kings Canyon National Park, CA
 D. Sequoia National Park, CA
 E. Lava Beds National Monument, Tulelake, CA
 F. Whiskeytown National Recreation Area, Whiskeytown, CA
 G. Big Cypress National Preserve, Ochopee, FL
 H. Acadia National Park, Bar Harbor, ME


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet one of these basic requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your course work and/or degree completed in your resume or other application materials you submit. You must submit a copy of your transcripts that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information described below, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected). Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. Your responses to the following minimum qualifications question, as well as the other questions in the questionnaire, in conjunction with the information provided in your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.


1.
GW-06 Minimum Qualifications Requirement.

YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the qualification requirements for a Wildland Firefighter, GW-0456-06 position. Read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response, or leave this question blank you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position at the GW-06 level.

NOTE: If firefighting experience includes both structural and wildland, it is essential that your application materials clearly separate and document your wildland experience.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS/GW-05 grade level in the Federal service. For this position, specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position and must have included work in, or directly related to, forest or range fire control, prevention, or suppression. Examples of specialized experience for this position includes performing and directing others in starting pump engine, priming pump, adjusting engine speed and pump valves, laying hose appropriate nozzles and nozzle adjustment in effective use of water and foam application; Performing prescribed fire operations including preparation, ignition, monitoring, holding, and mop up; Evaluating initial fire situations, determining rate of spread, potential hazards to property and other improvements; Ensure the engine and fire equipment has been kept in full state of readiness for emergency dispatch.
 I do not meet the above qualification requirement.


IFPM/NWCG Qualifications (Screen out)


2.
In addition to the basic qualifications and specialized experience described above, selectees must possess IFPM requirements by the closing date of the announcement. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications. Applicants must document how the meet this requirement by including a copy of their IQCS Master Record or equivalent in their application material.
 Engine Crew - NWCG Certifications of Firefighter Type 1 (FFT1) -AND- the training requirement of S-290, Intermediate Wildland Fire Behavior
 I do not meet the certifications and training requirements stated above.


3.
This position is covered by the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8336 (c) and 5 U.S.C. 8412 (d). Applicants must not have reached their 37th birthday upon appointment to this position unless there is sufficient prior Federal service in a covered position to permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age for this type of position. An exception is allowed if you are a qualified veterans preference eligible. Please select below which best describes how you meet this requirement.

 I have not reached age 37.
 I am 37 years of age or older, but I have had prior Federal service in a covered primary law enforcement or firefighter position(s), which would permit retirement on or before the mandatory retirement age of 57 for this type of position. Note: Provide documentation with your application (a copy of your SF-50's) that shows beginning and ending dates of your covered Federal service and hours per week.
 I am 37 years of age or older and not currently in a special retirement position, but I would qualify as a preference eligible. Note: Provide the necessary documentation to support your veterans' preference claim (e.g., copy of DD-214, Veterans Affairs letter, SF-15, etc).
 I am 37 years of age or older and do not meet any of the above requirements.


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙