Position Title
Criminal Investigator (ATF Coordinator)
Agency
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives
Announcement Number
25-OD-IMP-12806373-CLG Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 29, 2025 to Oct 03, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you currently work at ATF?
 
To be eligible, you must:
Be a current permanent ATF employee on a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service. If you are unsure of your eligibility login to HR Connect to review your latest SF-50. Block 24 -Tenure must be "1 - Permanent" or "2 - Conditional" AND Block 34 - Position Occupied must be "1 -Competitive Service."
Submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) with your application package.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy; and
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements?
The grade level or at least one of the grade levels that I am applying for is higher than I have previously held or currently hold.
The full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of my previous or current position's stated full performance level(s).
To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1). 
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and you have held a position at the same or higher grade level as this position with the same or higher promotion potential?

OR

Are you currently employed with the agency/department specified in the announcement as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service and have you held the full performance level of this position?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50), or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status. Your SF-50 should document how you meet the above requirements including grade levels and full performance levels of current/past positions. You may need to submit more than one SF-50. Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must also reflect:
career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); and status in the competitive service (position occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Justice (DOJ). Your response to this assessment questionnaire, in conjunction with other portions of your completed application, will be evaluated in making screening decisions. This is a DOJ job application system. Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this application. Incomplete/incorrect responses may result in you not receiving appropriate consideration.


1.
You must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade in the federal service that has equipped you with the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. Select the choice that best describes your specialized experience.
 I have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level GS-14: Consulting and advising to external law enforcement agencies on major ATF policy and program planning initiatives; AND Applying ATF law enforcement investigative techniques; AND Educating and training in the field divisions with ATF programs.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent in responsibility and scope to the next lower grade level as described above.


2.
Choose all the statements that best describe your experience in leading a multi-agency investigation. (Check all that apply)
 A. I have met with participating law enforcement agencies of a multi-agency investigation to discuss the jurisdiction and organizational conflicts that arise during the course of the investigation.
 B. I have meet with prosecutors (Federal and State) on multi-agency investigations to discuss the jurisdictional issues and procedural processes during the course of the investigation.
 C. I have met with other Federal agencies of multi-agency investigations to discuss the investigative techniques/tactics and prosecution issues during the course of the investigation.
 D. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


3.
Choose the statement that best describes your ability to develop and implement enforcement strategies within your area of responsibility.
 I have developed objectives and priorities for my office, consistent with my Frontline Domain Assessment, and communicate reasonable performance measures to my employees to gauge our effectiveness.
 I have interacted with external agencies in an effort to diagnose crime trends, negotiate for resources, and develop/implement solutions to local and bureau-wide issues.
 I have participated in Bureau wide efforts, such as reviewing and providing feedback on proposed Orders and Briefs, and relay that information to my employees.
 I have no experience in this area.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
Do you have experience advising high-level officials on policy issues?
 Yes
 No


5.
Choose the one response that best describes your knowledge of ATF's mission, strategic plans, programs, and operations.
 I have some knowledge of ATF's mission, strategic plan, programs, and operations.
 I have assisted in accomplishing ATF's mission, strategic plan, programs, and operations through my work experience.
 I have assisted in the development of ATF programs and/or operations.
 I have independently developed ATF programs and/or operations with minimal assistance from my supervisor or a senior employee.
 I have supervised/led a team in the development of ATF programs and/or operations.
 I have no experience in this area.


6.
Choose the below statements that best describe your understanding of technology and its role in furthering our agency's mission: (Check all that apply)
 A. Through liaison with other agencies, I routinely identify and adopt their data mining practices and computer intelligence programs/databases, for use within ATF.
 B. I encourage all of the law enforcement agencies within my area of responsibility to trace all of their recovered crime guns and submit firearms/casings evidence for IBIS testing.
 C. I ensure that my employees are proficient with all internal ATF databases, and that they embrace the use of intelligence and technology to guide them in our investigations.
 D. I have insisted that groups and personnel under my supervision adhere to the newest policies and requirements for ATF’s Intelligence-Led Policing program, such as the use of multi-agency information sharing and deconfliction systems.
 E. I have no experience in this area.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
Do you have experience successfully developing or implementing policy programs that affect matters furtherance of the ATF mission?
 Yes
 No


8.
Do you have experience as a Federal law enforcement officer requiring and applying knowledge of criminal laws, investigative techniques, procedures, and practices, in order to plan and conduct investigations?
 Yes
 No


9.
Which of the following best describes your highest level of experience establishing liaison with counterparts in the Federal, State, and local law enforcement?
 I have no experience establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community.
 I have established liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community with guidance from a supervisor.
 I have some experience independently establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community.
 I have routinely and independently established liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community as a regular part of my job.
 I am highly skilled at establishing liaison with officials throughout the law enforcement community, have trained others in this activity and/or others have consulted me as an expert for assistance.


10.
Choose the statements that best describes your communication skills. (Check all that apply).
 A. I meet with our external partners to discuss ATF’s mission and to clarify jurisdictional concerns.
 B. I make oral presentations to area law enforcement gatherings or conferences.
 C. I represent ATF at local agency head meetings.
 D. I have no experience in this area.


11.
Select the items that describe work activities you have performed on a regular or recurring basis involving teaching or instructing others. (Check all that apply).
 A. Apply a comprehensive training approach to situations requiring technologically complex devices and equipment.
 B. Conduct technical investigative courses, seminars, and meetings regarding state-of-the-art techniques, procedures and guidelines in these fields as they relate to law enforcement and or fire service.
 C. Develop and deliver law enforcement related training programs.
 D. Design and implement new or cutting edge programs processes.
 E. Provide direction to other instructors.
 F. Schedule activities.
 G. Moderates facilitate curriculum issues.
 H. Evaluate training.
 I. Determine training needs.
 J. None of the above.


12.
Select the one answer choice that best describes your skill in being results driven (i.e. making timely decisions and producing results through strategic planning, performance measurements, and implementing and evaluating programs and policies).
 I have no experience in this area.
 I have personally developed short-and long-term goals that were applied in furthering investigative activities.
 I have assisted in formulating short- and long-term goals that were incorporated into strategic program plans to further investigative activities.
 I have experience in formulating strategic program plans that assesses investigative feasibility and developing realistic short- and long-term goals, setting investigative standards, and ensuring accountability for achieving standards.


13.
Please select from the list below the reasons for which you conducted assessments, surveys, evaluations and studies of proposed legislation, regulations, policies, or initiatives. (Check all that apply).
 A. To manage programs, including budget and human resources.
 B. To implement programs.
 C. To make recommendations to improve programs/operations.
 D. To decide on continuation or termination of programs.
 E. To make recommendations to senior agency officials.
 F. To negotiate program direction and completion alternatives.
 G. To identify problems or vulnerabilities in a program.
 H. To develop new policies or procedures for the agency.
 I. To formulate policy to support executive direction (e.g. policy manuals, guides, training materials).
 J. None of the above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


14.
Have you developed and/or recommend short, intermediate and long-range planning goals?

 Yes
 No


15.
Do any of your relatives work for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives? Include: father; mother; husband; wife; son; daughter; brother; sister; uncle; aunt; first cousin; nephew; niece; father-in-law; mother-in-law; son-in-law; daughter-in-law; brother-in-law; sister-in-law; stepfather; stepmother; stepson; stepdaughter; stepbrother; stepsister; half-brother; and half-sister.
 Yes
 No


16.
ATF employment is contingent upon a favorable adjudication (decision) of your background investigation. Your conduct and character must demonstrate suitability for the position for which you are applying. Unresolved matters may prevent completion of your background investigation or favorable adjudication of it. If ATF cannot complete your background investigation and adjudicate it, you will be removed from the hiring process. Are you willing to submit to the background investigation process?
 Yes
 No


17.
The Department of Justice requires that you provide proof that for 3 out of the last 5 years you have resided in the United States, worked for the United States in a foreign country in a Federal or U.S. military capacity for 3 out of the last 5 years, and/or been a dependent of a Federal or U.S. military employee in a foreign country for 3 out of the last 5 years. Are you able to provide sufficient documentation to meet this residency requirement?
 Yes
 No


18.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙