Position Title
Records and Information Management Specialist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13033144B-PVN-0308-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Aug 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


2.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


3.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


4.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


5.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


6.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


7.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


8.
What is your current position title?


9.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


10.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


11.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


12.
This vacancy is limited to employees that hold a permanent position of record in the Privacy business unit(s).

Do you hold a permanent position in a business unit listed above?
 Yes, I hold a permanent position in one of the business units above.
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:  To qualify for this position, you must meet the qualification requirements outlined below.

SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE GS-13: To be eligible for this position at this grade level, you must have at least one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience for this position includes:
Experience interpreting and applying privacy, disclosure or records management laws, regulations and policies.
Experience creating guidance and analysis studies to ensure the protection of specific records.
Experience evaluating privacy, disclosure and records management issues and resolving in a manner compliant with appropriate laws, regulations, and policies.
Experience planning, designing, and carrying out information and records management projects.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.

Do you have one (1) year of experience interpreting and applying privacy, disclosure, or records management laws, regulations, and policies?

 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have one (1) year of experience creating guidance and analysis studies to ensure the protection of service-wide records?
 Yes
 No


3.
Do you have one (1) year of experience evaluating privacy, disclosure and records management issues and resolving in a manner compliant with appropriate laws, regulations, and policies?
 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one (1) year of experience planning, designing, and carrying out information and records management projects?
 Yes
 No


5.
Which of the following contributions have you made to your workplace environment?

 A. Developed records management training
 B. Delivered records management training
 C. Participated on working groups or task forces
 D. Assigned by manager to train or mentor co-workers
 E. Presented at a group or team meeting
 F. Developed program policy or procedures
 G. Created process guides, job aids, and/or standard operating procedures
 H. Developed project plans
 I. Scheduled records
 J. Inventoried records and developed files plans
 K. None of the above


6.
Which of the following best describes your experience with planning, scheduling, and organizing work to meet your customers' needs?

 I have participated as a team member that planned, scheduled, and organized work.
 I have led a team that planned, scheduled, and organized work.
 I have supervised teams that planned, scheduled, and organized work.
 None of the above.


7.
Which of the following best describes your experience negotiating and obtaining consensus amongst a wide audience including management and stakeholders on matters involving controversial and/or sensitive issues?
 I have participated as a team member that negotiated and obtained consensus amongst a wide audience on matters involving controversial and/or sensitive issues.
 I have negotiated and obtained consensus amongst a wide audience on matters involving controversial and/or sensitive issues, with supervision from management or senior level employee support.
 I have independently negotiated and obtained consensus amongst a wide audience on matters involving controversial and/or sensitive issues.
 I have supervised and/ or led a team that negotiated and obtained consensus amongst a wide audience on matters involving controversial and/or sensitive issues.
 None of the above


8.
Which of the following best describes your experience in writing reports of analyses to explain information and justify findings and recommendations?

 I have experience writing technical memoranda, reports, and project papers for my manager or as part of a work team.
 I have experience writing comprehensive technical reports, procedural manuals, policy directives, or other guidance for department-level staff.
 I have experience writing comprehensive reports on studies and analyses involving complex or technical information including summaries, conclusions and recommendations for high-level officials (enterprise-level).
 I have supervised and/or led the performance of this task and others normally consult me as an expert for assistance in performing this task.
 None of the above


9.
Which of the following experiences have you had in communicating records management project and/or program matters?

 A. Provided project/program briefings and/or updates to peers and/or customers/stakeholders.
 B. Led project/program meetings with parties outside of my organization.
 C. Presented recommendations to my supervisor to facilitate decision making process.
 D. Presented recommendations to senior management to facilitate decision making process.
 E. None of the above


10.
Have you created or developed a recordkeeping process improvement or technique (e.g., developed a measures dashboard, established a virtual training program, designed a collaborative tool for sharing information, and/or automated a records management process)?

 Yes, I have assisted with the development of a process improvement or technique that was implemented at the organizational level.
 Yes, I have assisted with the development of a process improvement or technique that was implemented at the enterprise-wide level
 No, I have not assisted with the development of a process improvement or technique that was implemented at the levels listed above.


11.
Which of the following tasks have you performed in a professional environment?

 A. Developed and managed multiple projects/programs.
 B. Established project/program priorities.
 C. Established milestone goals.
 D. Coordinated with others to meet goals.
 E. Formally monitored progress and outcomes.
 F. Made resource decisions for competing projects.
 G. Anticipated and resolved project/program related issues.
 H. Assigned responsibility for program/project deliverables
 I. Assessed program results or project outcomes and made recommendations
 J. None of the above


12.
Which of the following best describes your experience in managing your workload?

 I complete each work assignment in the order it is received and deadlines are established by others.
 I complete each work assignment by setting priorities and reallocating resources if necessary, to meet deadlines established by others.
 I complete each work assignment by setting priorities and reallocating resources if necessary, to meet deadlines established by me.
 I complete each work assignment by setting priorities and reallocating resources if necessary, to meet fluctuating deadlines based on the needs of the organization.
 None of the above


13.
Which of the following answers best describes your level of experience in using standard program management processes and techniques to plan, schedule and implement a complex project (e.g., workflow, charting, benchmarking, budgeting, scoping, resource allocation, problem tracking, identification of deliverables, etc.)?
 I have participated as a team member using standard program management processes and techniques to plan, schedule and implement a complex project.
 I have led a team using standard program management processes and techniques to plan, schedule and implement a complex project.
 I have supervised teams that used standard program management processes and techniques to plan, schedule and implement complex projects.
 None of the above


14.
What administration experience(s) do you have related to records management?

 A. Prepared a cost/benefit analysis.
 B. Prepared an annual strategic program plan.
 C. Delegated work assignments.
 D. Planned organizational workload.
 E. Developed a staffing plan
 F. Developed a communications plan
 G. Developed a training plan
 H. Wrote a statement of work
 I. Managed or led a records management program team
 J. Developed an operational review briefing
 K. Wrote an annual report of activities
 L. Managed a program budget
 M. Developed records storage plans
 N. None of the above


15.
Which of the following best describes your experience in refining and developing e records specific procedures, new processes or establishing necessary criteria when guidelines are too general?
 I have participated as a team member in refining and developing records specific procedures, new processes or establishing necessary criteria when guidelines are too general.
 I have led a team in refining and developing records specific procedures, new processes or establishing necessary criteria when guidelines are too general.
 I have supervised teams that refined and developed records specific procedures, new processes or establishing necessary criteria when guidelines are too general.
 None of the above


16.
Which of the following tasks best describes your highest level of experience in inserting records management requirements into electronic systems or designs?

 I have had training and/or education on electronic records management requirements.
 I have collaborated with system owners to identify electronic records management requirements for scheduling purposes.
 I have assisted with scheduling electronic records or electronic systems.
 I have participated in the capital planning and investment control process to build records management requirements into proposed electronic system development and design.
 None of the above


17.
Which of the following best describes your experience interpreting and applying federal records management policies and procedures?
 I have participated as a team member in interpreting and applying federal records management policies and procedures.
 I have led a team in interpreting and applying federal records management policies and procedures.
 I have supervised teams that interpreted and applied federal records management policies and procedures.
 None of the above


18.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience conducting records management operational program review activities?
 I have participated as a team member in conducting records management operational program review activities.
 I have led a team in conducting records management operational program review activities.
 I have supervised teams that conducted records management operational program review activities.
 None of the above


19.
Which of the following best describes your problem solving experience?

 I have developed new or innovative solutions to identify problems when appropriate.
 I have assembled findings and summarized results by preparing appropriate reports or documents.
 I have developed new or innovative solutions to identify problems when appropriate, assembled findings, and summarized results by preparing appropriate reports or documents.
 None of the above


20.
Which of the following best describes your level of experience in completing several work assignments or projects concurrently with competing priorities?
 I have participated as a team member in completing several work assignments or projects concurrently with competing priorities.
 I have led a team completing several work assignments or projects concurrently with competing priorities.
 I have supervised teams completing several work assignments or projects concurrently with competing priorities.
 None of the above


21.
In which of the following role(s) have you ensured accuracy of work in your organization?

 A. Trusted Advisor to senior management.
 B. Subject Matter Expert
 C. Edited documents prior to publication
 D. Enlisted as Quality Reviewer on a project, working group, or task force.
 E. None of the above


22.
Which of the following tasks have you performed with respect to records, protection of privacy, disclosure, and Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)?

 A. I have completed an assessment of records retention requirements for a system of records.
 B. I have collaborated with others on the assessment of personal identifiable information (PII).
 C. I have answered a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request involving PII.
 D. I have collaborated with systems and program owners in completing a privacy impact assessment.
 E. I have reviewed a system of record notice or privacy impact assessment for inclusion of records management requirements prior to publication.
 F. I have responded to an incident involving disclosure of records containing PII.
 G. None of the above


23.
Which of the following best describes your experience in applying qualitative and quantitative techniques to gather, assemble, and analyze facts, draw conclusions, and devise alternatives and/or recommend solutions to complex records management problems?
 I have participated as a team member applying qualitative and quantitative techniques to gather, assemble, and analyze facts, draw conclusions, and devise alternatives and/or recommend solutions to complex records management problems.
 I have led a team applying qualitative and quantitative techniques to gather, assemble, and analyze facts, draw conclusions, and devise alternatives and/or recommend solutions to complex records management problems.
 I have supervised teams applying qualitative and quantitative techniques to gather, assemble, and analyze facts, draw conclusions, and devise alternatives and/or recommend solutions to complex records management problems.
 None of the above


24.
Which of the following activities have you performed as part of a records management operational program review?

 A. Developed a program review checklist.
 B. Analyzed program elements.
 C. Conducted interviews with key staff.
 D. Developed reports of findings.
 E. Communicated findings and recommendations to management.
 F. Tracked and monitored follow-up of proposed corrective actions and/or recommendations
 G. None of the above


25.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙