Position Title
Contract Specialist
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CEDA-26-13056136-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Redstone Arsenal, AL
 B. Phoenix, AZ
 C. Pensacola, FL
 D. Detroit, MI
 E. Vicksburg, MS
 F. Omaha, NE
 G. Portland, OR
 H. Nashville, TN
 I. Alexandria, VA
 J. Huntington, WV


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
Financial Disclosure Statement OGE Form 450 is used to assist agencies and employees to avoid conflicts between duties and financial interest. This position requires pre-employment financial disclosure and annually thereafter in accordance with DoD Directive 5500-7-R. Are you willing to disclose your financial affiliations prior to employment and annually thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
Appointment to this position is subject to a one year probationary period unless the appointee has previously met the requirements as described in 5 CFR Part 11. While probationary the incumbent can be terminated with limited appeal rights. Are you willing to serve a one year probationary period?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position has a Temporary Duty (TDY) or business travel requirement of 20% of the time. Are you willing and able to travel away from your permanent duty station up to 20% of the time?
 Yes
 No


5.
This is a Defense Acquisition Workforce position. The employee must meet the Contracting Professional Certification within 3 years. Do you possess or are you willing to obtain the Contracting Professional Certification within 3 years?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Contract Specialist GS-1102-13 position with the Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) from an accredited educational institution. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am a current DoD employee, in any occupational series, who has served on or before September 30, 2000, as follows: (1) Served as a GS/equivalent-1102 position or contracting officer position with authority to award or administer contracts above the SAT in any Federal agency; OR (2) Served as a military member in a comparable military occupational specialty.
 I do not meet the education requirements above. However, I am a current member of the armed forces who occupied a position within an occupational specialty similar to the GS-1102 series on or before September 30, 2000.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Contract Specialist at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service which includes work that involves conducting contract negotiations; resolving issues and/or problems associated with contract administration; serving as the principal contracting advisor to the project manager; performing pre-award activities and making contract modifications.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙