Position Title
POLICY ANALYST
Agency
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for DC - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
OD-26-12885911-DE-DJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Mar 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


You must select one, but may select more than one, eligibility option in order to receive consideration under competitive delegated examining.


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


6.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


7.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


8.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


9.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


Assessment 1
ASSESSMENT QUESTIONAIRE INSTRUCTIONS
Click the checkbox of the following statements that apply to you. Check all that apply.

Your responses to the questions should be supported by experience or education statements on your resume' or you may not be considered for the position.

Note: You may see follow up questions to your responses from a previous question that will require you to write short answers based on your experiences.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
To minimally qualify for this position, you must meet all the following requirements:

Specialized Experience is defined as having experience in the development of high-quality policies and procedures, working collaboratively with program and component office heads and subject-matter experts. This role involves extensive policy development, management, presentation of findings, and providing program and policy advice.
Specialized Experience also includes experience in the following areas:
Policy Development and Management - Proven experience in policy development and management. Analyzing, formulating, and developing new or revised policies, procedures, and systems and/or processes for program design and evaluation. Plans and develops policies and methodologies to improve work methods and management controls.
Program and Policy Advice and Guidance - Providing advice and guidance on programmatic issues requiring assessment and analysis.
Presentation of Findings and Recommendations - Prepares and delivers presentations on policy and procedural matters to various audiences.
Data Analysis - Conducting research, collecting relevant data, and performing thorough analyses to evaluate program performance and identify improvement opportunities. Developing strategic solutions to enhance business and management processes based on data analysis outcomes, thereby supporting informed decisions regarding procedural changes, policy creation or revisions.
Program Management - Uses performance measurement methodologies to assess program performance. This involves the use of quantitative data related to specific outputs (the direct results of the activities or inputs that go into a program) and the outcomes (the final results or changes resulting from program activities) to measure if a program is achieving the desired results. Focus is on evaluating and assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of an organization, business, or agency's program initiative.
Program Performance Measurement - Knowledge and experience using principles and methods for evaluating program or organizational performance using financial and nonfinancial measures, including identification of evaluation factors, key indicators, metrics, and outcomes.
Project Management - Skills in planning, executing, and overseeing projects to ensure they are completed on time, within scope, and within budget. This includes evaluating project metrics and outcomes, performance monitoring, and timeline management.
Analytical Thinking - Capable of analyzing complex data, problems, ideas, and information into smaller, more manageable parts to understand them better. For this position, this means breaking down complex parts of a program to understand and improve processes in order to make informed decisions. This involves identifying trends, evaluating processes, and developing solutions to improve efficiency and effectiveness. This includes Problem-Solving, Data Analysis, Critical Thinking, Logical Reasoning, and Attention to Detail.
Do you have the Specialized Experience as stated above to be minimally qualify for this position?
 Yes
 No


2.
CERTIFICATION STATEMENT
I certify to the best of my knowledge that my responses to the assessment questionnaire are correct and true.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙