Position Title
General Attorney (Contract)
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERH-26-12907486-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 12, 2026 to Mar 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a General Attorney (Contract) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Applicants must be a current member in good standing (as defined by the pertinent bar) of the bar of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I am currently a member in good standing (as defined by the pertinent bar) of the bar or a state, territory of the United States, District of Columbia, or Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 I am not a current member in good standing of the bar of a State, Territory, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.


2.
Applicants for Attorney positions must be graduates of a law school accredited by the American Bar Association at the time of the applicant's graduation.
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have received my first professional law degree (LLB or JD); or I have received my LLM
 I have not successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA).


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a General Attorney (Contract) at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service
 I have successfully completed a full course of study in a school of law accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and have received my first professional law degree (LLB or JD), AND I have completed at least two years of professional, legal, licensed attorney experience.
 I have graduated from an ABA-Accredited Law School in the top 25% of the class or obtained and advanced law degree such as Master of Law (LLM) and have one year of professional legal experience, acquired after being admitted to the bar, which commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the position.
 My education and professional legal experience is not described above.


4.
Your responses to the assessment, along with your application package and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙