Position Title
Supervisory Railroad Accident Investigator
Agency
National Transportation Safety Board
Announcement Number
RPH-13022704-26-SL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 19, 2026 to Aug 31, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current NTSB Federal civilian employee occupying a Career or Career-Conditional position in the Competitive Service? To be eligible,your Notification of Personnel Action(SF-50) must reflect your agency, permanent tenure and competitive status:
Tenure: Career or Career-conditional (Field#24 is 1 or 2);
Position Occupied: Competitive service (Field#34 is 1); and
Employing Agency: NTSB
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Supervisory Railroad Accident Investigator, GS-2121-15 position with the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the one which best describes your experience that meets the Minimum Qualifications Requirement for the Supervisory Railroad Accident Investigator, GS-15.
 I have at one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the federal service. Specialized experience is experience in rail accident investigation protocols, procedures, and methodology as they relate to railroad design, human performance factors, railroad operational factors, survival factors, equipment and structural factors; and identifying safety issues and developing safety recommendations; and reviewing reports for technical accuracy.
 I have less than one year of specialized experience as described above.
 I do not possess the specialized experience as described above.


2.
In addition to the specialized experience above, select the one choice below that will also meet the minimum qualifications Requirement for the Supervisory Railroad Accident Investigator, GS-15.
 I have the following: Knowledge of the railroad industry, including economic and operating considerations and equipment; Knowledge of the general safety and health principles and practices applicable to the railroad industry; Knowledge of railroad accident investigation techniques; and Skill in written and oral communication.
 I do not possess the knowledge and skills as stated above.


3.
Please select one of the following choices that reflect your knowledge of Hazardous Materials.
 Knowledge of rail related shipping of different hazardous commodities to various environmental conditions and of safe procedures for containing or controlling fires, leaks, or explosions of these materials as well as a working knowledge of the construction, testing, and retesting of containers used to ship hazardous materials by rail; and Knowledge of Federal regulations and standards governing the shipment of hazardous materials by rail.
 I do not possess the knowledge as stated above.


4.
Please select one of the following choices that reflect your knowledge of Track.
 Knowledge of railroad track system construction, maintenance, testing, or inspection techniques; Knowledge of the capabilities and limitations of various track system configurations; and Knowledge of Federal railroad track safety standards.
 I do no possess the knowledge as stated above.


5.
Please select one of the following choices that reflect your knowledge of Signals and Train Control.
 Knowledge of the design, installation, maintenance, testing, or inspection of signal and train control systems and their capabilities and limitations; Knowledge of applicable Federal laws and regulations pertaining to railroad signaling and train control systems; and knowledge of locomotive braking systems and their relationship to and interface with train control or automatic train stop systems and braking distances.
 I do not possess the Knowledge as stated above.


6.
Please select one of the following choices that reflect your knowledge of Operating practices.
 Knowledge of railroad operating practices, rules and procedures, especially as they relate to safety issues, and knowledge of Federal regulations and standards relating to railroad operations and requirements in such areas as hours of service, accident reporting, blue signal protection of workers, rear end markers, radio communication, railroad employee qualifications, and railroad employee testing.
 I do not possess the Knowledge as stated above.


7.
Please select one of the following choices that reflect your knowledge of Motive Power and Equipment.
 Knowledge of the design, maintenance, or inspection of various types of locomotive and freight cars currently in use and their capabilities and limitations; Knowledge of the installation, maintenance, or testing of railroad safety appliances and power brakes, their capabilities and limitations; and Knowledge of the applicable Federal laws and regulations pertaining to inspection and testing of locomotives, freight cars, safety appliances, and power brakes.
 I do not possess the knowledge as stated above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙