Position Title
Investigative Analyst (Criminal Analyst)
Agency
Department of Homeland Security - Agency Wide
Announcement Number
JDP-12839017-25-DJ Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 20, 2025 to May 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0132 - Intelligence
 B. 1801 - General Inspection, Investigation, Enforcement, And Compliance Series
 C. 1802 - Compliance Inspection And Support
 D. 1805 - Investigative Analysis


3.
Do you currently possess a security clearance?
 Yes
 No


4.
If you answered yes to possessing a security clearance, please provide the level of clearance.


5.
Do you have an "achieved expectations" or "proficient" rating (or equivalent) on your most recent performance evaluation?
 Yes
 No


6.
For this next question, please type your response (yes or no) and your initials in the text box below.
During this Joint Duty Assignment (JDA), will you:
1. Complete the DHS Training Course 15 days prior to the arrival to the JDA.
2. Complete the DHS Joint Duty Assignment Progress Plan to include:
- Phase 1: Establish assignment objectives within the first 30 days of the JDA.
- Phase 2: Complete a self-assessment of the duties performed at the mid-point of the JDA.
- Phase 3: Complete a final review within the last 30 days of the JDA.
3. Complete 12 hours of professional development using Skillsoft courses, videos, and books in conjunction with the established assignment objectives for the JDA.
4. Attend each of the DHS Joint Duty Program Director's quarterly webinars (1 hour per quarter).


7.
Please select your current federal agency.
US Department of State
Department of Homeland Security
US Department of Veterans Affairs
US Department of Commerce
US Department of Energy
US Department of Housing and Urban Development
US Treasury Department
US Department of Education
US Department of Health and Human Services
Office of Management and Budget
US Department of Labor
US Department of Defense
US Department of Justice
US Department of Agriculture
US Department of Transportation
Other


Eligibility
1.
Are you a current Federal Employee?
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current GS-13?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current GS-12?
 Yes
 No


4.
This position requires the selectee's supervisor to sign a DHS 250-02 Application Form. My supervisor has signed the application form. (please attach copy of signed authorization form). Applicant will not be considered for the detail if the application form is not signed and submitting with application package.
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙