Position Title
Management Analyst
Agency
Interior, Bureau of Indian Affairs
Announcement Number
ST-26-12978212-CAWV-TB Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 18, 2026 to Jul 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 472), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.  

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; and,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; and,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; and,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and departed that position in good standing.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) and performance appraisal that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in the Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


Current or Former Federal Employees: Due weight will be given to performance appraisals and awards during the interview/selection process conducted by the hiring manager. If referred, all relevant documents including performance appraisals and awards submitted with your application package will be forwarded to the hiring official for review. If you do not have your most recent performance appraisal, please submit an explanation as to why it is unavailable and attach as a document.


2.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not serving under a Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP) or equivalent plan to improve my performance.
 Yes, I am on a plan to improve my performance.
 No, I am not on a plan to improve my performance.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


8.
This position requires a valid driver's license. Do you possess a current, valid driver's license?
 Yes
 No


9.
Are you a current, permanent employee with the BIA Office of Trust Services?  

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status.
Your SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
- for career or career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2); AND,
- your status is in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Management and Program Analyst position with the Bureau of Indian Affairs.


For each item, select the one response that most accurately describes your current level of experience and capability using the scale below. Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answer, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of education and/or experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for a GS-12 grade level Management Analyst. Your resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level monitoring or completing the implementation of OIG and GAO recommendations; coordinating regional serving as a regional or equivalent FOIA Coordinator; serve as a lead responding to Department or Bureau data calls; conducting management and budget analyses; drafting and recommending performance measures; using qualitative and quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of program effectiveness and improvement of management processes and systems on both a short and long term basis; and conducting studies to evaluate management programs, funds, and staff utilization within a region.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of education and/or experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for a GS-13 grade level Management Analyst. Your resume must support the response that you select.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-12 level monitoring or completing the implementation of OIG and GAO recommendations; coordinating regional serving as a regional or equivalent FOIA Coordinator; serve as a lead responding to Department or Bureau data calls; conducting management and budget analyses; drafting and recommending performance measures; using qualitative and quantitative methods for the assessment and improvement of program effectiveness and improvement of management processes and systems on both a short and long term basis; conducting studies to evaluate management programs, funds, and staff utilization within a region; providing technical assistance to all levels of management concerning budget, human resources, and strategic processes and issues; coordinating, overseeing, and monitoring movement of vacant positions through the classification and recruitment stages; providing workforce planning and analysis at a regional or multi-site level; and establishing and/or monitoring a process for succession planning.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙