Position Title
Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor- Direct Hire Authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-470113-13033112-LL Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 11, 2026 to Sep 11, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience needed to qualify for an Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor, WS-4701-13 positions. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Select the one statement which best describes the highest level of experience you possess and which demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of an Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor, WS-4701-13 without more than normal supervision. Note: Your resume must support the response you select.
 I have the ability to independently perform the most difficult and complex tasks of an Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor in assigning work to subordinates, direct sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and provide technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Participating with employees in the development of performance plans and advise employees in advance of performance expectations. Determining training needs of subordinates based on current and future requirements and arrange for training accomplishment. Possessing knowledge of a variety of trades and crafts to include water and waste systems, liquid fuel pipeline systems, entomology, Plant Operations and HVAC/R systems. I perform these duties with a high degree of independence.
 I am able to perform full range of Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor tasks to include assigning work to subordinates, direct sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and provide technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Participating with employees in the development of performance plans and advise employees in advance of performance expectations. Determining training needs of subordinates based on current and future requirements and arrange for training accomplishment. Possessing knowledge of a variety of trades and crafts to include water and waste systems, liquid fuel pipeline systems, entomology, Plant Operations and HVAC/R systems on my own initiative under limited supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I am able to perform common Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor tasks to include assigning work to subordinates, direct sequence of operations and methods to be employed, and provide technical direction in accomplishing difficult work steps and processes. Participate with employees in the development of performance plans and advise employees in advance of performance expectations. I work under the close supervision of a journeyman Supervisor who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I am able to perform simple Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor tasks such as analyzing work plans developed by subordinate supervisory staff and monitoring the status of their work in relation to the overall schedule requirements, including unanticipated or emergency requirements.
 I have no experience or training as an Infrastructure Maintenance Supervisor.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙