Position Title
USDA Child and Adult Care Food Program Clerk
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12917347 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent AND 2 years of administrative experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in supporting the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) and other food programs?
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in supporting food programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in coordinating work with other offices and individuals to ensure exchange of information (e.g., military families and the USDA program office)?
 I have 2+ years of experience in coordinating and interacting with multiple parties, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in coordinating and interacting with multiple parties, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in coordinating and interacting with multiple parties, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in coordinating and interacting with multiple parties, as described, above in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in coordinating and interacting with multiple parties, as described above.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in coordinating and interacting with multiple parties.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in providing food service trainings?
 I have 2+ years of experience in providing food service trainings in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in providing food service trainings in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in providing food service trainings in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in providing food service trainings in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in providing food service trainings.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in providing food service trainings..
 I have no experience in the above.


5.
How many years of experience do you have in speaking with small groups and individuals to provide training and assistance to program participants (e.g., orientation, in-take training, and workshops), and in maintaining accurate reports, records, and military style documents?
 I have 2+ years of experience in conducting trainings and maintaining records, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in conducting trainings and maintaining records, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in conducting trainings and maintaining records, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in conducting trainings and maintaining records, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in conducting trainings and maintaining records.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in conducting trainings and maintaining records.
 I have no experience in the above.


Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a USDA Clerk. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙