Position Title
Food Service Worker Leader
Agency
Military Treatment Facilities under DHA
Announcement Number
HSJW-26-13035037 - DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Aug 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Short Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Food Service Worker Leader position with the Defense Health Agency. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you meet the basic eligibility and qualification requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Food Service Worker Leader, WL-7408-04 duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex food service and leadership tasks. I am skilled in leading shift personnel by demonstrating proper work methods, pacing workflow, and ensuring timely and accurate delivery of patient trays. I am skilled in explaining procedures, checking work for compliance with instructions and deadlines, and coordinating with food production, Clinical Dietetics, and sanitation to maintain efficient meal service. I am experienced in initiating meal service from patient diet orders, explaining Room Service to patients, and generating Missed Meals reports. I am proficient in arranging and delivering trays accurately, handling isolation trays according to policy, returning soiled carts, and stocking nourishments correctly. I work with a high degree of independence and provide reliable updates to the supervisor while maintaining safety, housekeeping, and consistent service quality.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of duties of a Food Service Worker Leader. I am skilled in leading shift personnel by demonstrating proper work methods, pacing workflow, and ensuring timely and accurate delivery of patient trays. I am experienced in initiating meal service from patient diet orders, explaining Room Service to patients, and generating Missed Meals reports. I am proficient in arranging and delivering trays accurately, handling isolation trays according to policy, returning soiled carts, and stocking nourishments correctly. I work with a high degree of independence and provide reliable updates to the supervisor while maintaining safety, housekeeping, and consistent service quality.
 I have the ability to perform the common duties of a Food Service Worker Leader. I am skilled in leading shift personnel by demonstrating proper work methods, pacing workflow, and ensuring timely and accurate delivery of patient trays. I am experienced in initiating meal service from patient diet orders, explaining Room Service to patients, and generating Missed Meals reports. I am proficient in arranging and delivering trays accurately, handling isolation trays according to policy, returning soiled carts, and stocking nourishments correctly.
 I have the ability to perform simple duties of a Food Service Worker Leader such as initiating meal service from patient diet orders, explaining Room Service to patients, and generating Missed Meals reports. I am proficient in arranging and delivering trays accurately, handling isolation trays according to policy, returning soiled carts, and stocking nourishments correctly.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙