Position Title
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST- DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-039103-12921599-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 27, 2026 to Apr 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST, NH-0391-03 Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your work experience as relevant to the position of TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST, NH-0391-03 (NOTE: The selection you make must be supported by a detailed block of work experience in your resume or application). Only experience obtained by the closing date of this announcement will be considered.
 I have or will have within 120 days of closing of this announcement, 1 year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband (NH-02), equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-11). Specialized experience to include providing telecommunication technical assistance, planning, funding oversight, monitoring and management of projects and contractors; conducting research and development, testing and evaluation involving telecommunication and related systems; researching data and recommending solutions to novel and unique software issues.
 I have less than the full amount of specialized experience described above.


2.
From the description below, choose the one letter beside the statement that best describes your education experience as relevant to the position of TELECOMMUNICATIONS SPECIALIST, NH-0391-03 (NOTE:. You must submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts showing type of degree and date conferred when applying for this position. NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST REFLECT EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE)
 I have or will have within 120 days of closing of this announcement an Undergraduate or Graduate degree with the major study in electrical or electronic engineering, mathematics, physics, public utilities, statistics, computer science, telecommunications management, information systems management, business administration, industrial management, or other fields related to the position to be filled.
 I have or will have within 120 days of closing of this announcement other education in Communications/electronics or automatic data processing training in technical institutes or business schools above the high school level or in Armed Forces schools that included advanced instruction in addition to basic courses, may be substituted for general experience on a month-for-month basis.
 I do not have any education as described above


I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


3.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.




 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙