Position Title
Student Trainee (Mathematics & Statistics)
Agency
US Army Civilian Human Resources Agency
Announcement Number
CHAR-26-12844211-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 15, 2026 to Apr 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Direct Hire Authority - Post-Secondary Student

Are you currently a person who:

1. Is currently enrolled in, and in good academic standing at, a full-time program at an institution of higher education; and 

2. Is making satisfactory progress towards receipt of a baccalaureate or graduate degree; and

3. Have completed at least one year of the program?

Supporting Documentation:
If eligible as a post-secondary student, you must submit a copy of your transcripts to support your eligibility.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please provide your anticipated graduation date for the academic program you are currently enrolled in towards receipt of a baccalaureate or graduate degree to include the month and years (such as May 2027).


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
3
4


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Student Trainee (Mathematics & Statistics) position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Student Trainee (Mathematics & Statistics) at the GS-03 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. You must provide college transcripts to support educational claims. Diplomas will not be accepted in place of transcripts, transcripts MUST be submitted with your application.

 I have completed 1 full academic year of post-high school study. (One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university.)
 I do not possess the education as described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Student Trainee (Mathematics & Statistics) at the GS-04 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service. You must provide college transcripts to support educational claims. Diplomas will not be accepted in place of transcripts, transcripts MUST be submitted with your application.

 I have completed 2 full academic years of post-high school study. (Two years of full-time academic study is defined as 60 semester hours, 90 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university.)
 I have an associate's degree.
 I do not possess the education as described above.


3.
Select the option below which most closely describes your academic credentials.

 I am a current student, enrolled in mathematics, statistics, or other related discipline/academic program.
 I am not a current student, enrolled in a related discipline/academic program as described above.


4.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙