Position Title
Clinical Laboratory Scientist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSR-13073572-26-MC Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 24, 2026 to Oct 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you currently employed by the Department of Veterans Affairs?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Basic Requirements for the position of Clinical Laboratory Scientist GS-644


To qualify for this position, you must meet the basic requirements as well as any additional requirements (if applicable) listed in the job announcement. Applicants pending the completion of training or license requirements may be referred and tentatively selected but may not be hired until all requirements are met.


1.
Education:

Bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university.
NOTE: Foreign Education: To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must be deemed at least equivalent to that gained in a conventional U.S. program by a private organization specializing in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials. Graduates of foreign baccalaureate degree programs meet the educational requirements if they meet either of the following: (1) Foreign transcripts are evaluated by an acceptable evaluation agency, and the degree is found to be equivalent to a NAACLS-approved U.S. clinical laboratory science degree program. OR (2) The applicant submits a letter from ASCP BOC or AMT stating the individual is eligible to take the certification examination. NOTE: Possession of a certification identified in 4c above automatically determines the foreign education as creditable and no further documentation or proof of equivalency is needed.

May qualify based on being covered by the Grandfathering Provision as described in the VA Qualification Standard for this occupation (only applicable to current VHA employees who are in this occupation and meet the criteria). Employees in VHA in this occupation under a permanent, appropriate, and legal placement on the effective date of December 3, 2024, are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the grade and/or assignment held, including positive education and certification where applicable.

Do you meet the experience and/or education requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No
 Yes, I meet the Grandfathering Provision.


1a.
Please provide the following information regarding the education requirements shown above; otherwise indicate N/A.

Name of Institution:
City and State:
Degree Major/Program:
Month and Year conferred:


2.
Certification - Candidates must meet one of the certification options below. 

(a) Generalist certification as an MLS given by ASCP BOC or AMT.
(b) Generalist certification as an MT given by ASCP BOR or AMT.
(c) Categorical certification or Specialist certification by ASCP or AMT
(d) Exception, candidates must meet one of the following routes listed to meet the exception requirements.  
Applicants who do not currently hold valid certification may be hired by VA and actively work toward their certification if they meet one of the routes identified in Appendix A that makes them eligible to take the MLS certification exam through the ASCP BOC or the MLS certification exam through AMT Certification Agency. Non-Certified applicants who otherwise meet the eligibility requirements for licensure may be given a temporary appointment CLS under the authority of 38 U.S.C. § 7405(c)(2). Non-Certified individuals may only provide care under the supervision of a certified CLS at or above the FPL. Non-certified individuals may only be appointed at the entry level and may not be promoted/converted until certification is obtained. Temporary appointments of non-certified CLS may not be extended beyond 2 years or be converted to a new temporary appointment.

Do you meet the certification requirement as described above?

NOTE: Categorical and specialist certifications are not acceptable for CLS Generalist positions or lab sections unrelated to the categorical or specialist certification held. Categorical or specialist certifications are acceptable for higher-graded positions within the relevant lab section or one of the non-section specific assignments (including, Ancillary Testing Coordinator, Education Coordinator, Laboratory Information Manager, Quality Manager, Laboratory Manager, Regional Technical Specialist, National Quality and Compliance Agent, Regional Program Manager, Regional Director, Laboratory Director, or National Quality and Compliance Officer).
 Yes, I have the required certification.
 No, I do not have the required certification or meet the above criteria.
 Yes, I meet Route #1: Education and Experience must be met:  Education: A bachelor's degree or higher from an accredited college or university in medical laboratory science, medical technology, clinical laboratory science, or in a related science (for example, chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, immunology, etc.) Certification: *Certification must be obtained within 2 years of temporary appointment. Experience: Completion of a medical technology clinical practice program within the last 5 years. Clinical practice programs completed after 1974 must be accredited by the NAACLS, Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP, formerly CAHEA), or the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES). The professional curriculum may have consisted of a post-baccalaureate certificate program or be integrated into a 4-year program of study that culminated in a baccalaureate degree. *NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry. NOTE: Transcripts are required if you are claiming the exception.
 Yes, I meet Route #2: Education, Certification, and Experience must be met: Education: A bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*), AND Certification: Valid Medical Laboratory Technician (MLT) certification by the ASCP BOC, ASCP BOR, or AMT Experience: 1 year of post-MLT certification clinical laboratory experience within the last 3 years. This experience must include performing moderate and/or high complexity testing (as categorized by the FDA) in a clinical laboratory. Research laboratory experience does not fulfill this requirement. NOTE: Transcripts are required if you are claiming the exception.
 Yes, I meet Route #3: Education and Experience must be met:  Education: A bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university including 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of biological science (with one course in microbiology), 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) of chemistry (with one course in organic or biochemistry*), and one course in mathematics. Certification: *Certification must be obtained within 2 years of temporary appointment. Experience: 4 years of clinical laboratory experience within the last nine years performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood bank, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and clinical microscopy (or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. *NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry. NOTE: Transcripts are required if you are claiming the exception.
 Yes, I meet Route #4: Education, Military Training, and Experience must be met: Education: A bachelor's degree from an accredited college/university with 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) in biology including one semester in microbiology and 16 semester hours (24 quarter hours) in chemistry, which may be obtained within or in addition to, the bachelor's degree. Certification: *Certification must be obtained within 2 years of temporary appointment. Military Training: Completion of a 50-week U.S. Military MLT training program (with official certificate verifying completion of training) within the last 10 years. Experience: 1 year full-time clinical laboratory experience within the last 10 years. This experience must include performing moderate and/or high complexity testing in blood banking, chemistry, hematology, microbiology, immunology, and urinalysis/body fluids (or categorical experience that matches categorical certification) in a clinical laboratory. Research laboratory experience does not fulfill this requirement. *NOTE: The successful completion of a NAACLS accredited MLS (certificate) program, NAACLS, ABHES accredited MLT program, or a foreign medical laboratory science clinical training program within the last 5 years can be used in lieu of completion of 1 semester of organic or biochemistry. NOTE: Transcripts are required if you are claiming the exception.
 Yes, I am pending my certification.


2a.
Please provide the following information regarding the certification you received, otherwise indicate N/A.

Certification Obtained Through:
Certification:
Certification #:
Expiration Date:


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
English Language Proficiency. Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. § 7403(f).

Do you meet the language requirement as described above?
 Yes
 No


Minimum Requirement for GS-9 Level


4.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-09

Please select the option below that best describes your experience/education to meet the grade requirements.
 Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade.
 Education. Master's degree or 2 academic years of progressively higher-level graduate education in medical technology or a directly related science. NOTE: Transcript is required if claiming education.
 I do not meet the criteria as described above.


Demonstrate Knowledge, Skills and Abilities GS-09


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


5.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of policies and procedures of clinical laboratory testing.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance principles.
(c) Knowledge of laboratory equipment and routine maintenance.
(d) Ability to work as a team member and effectively complete assignments.
(e) Ability to read and interpret written instructions.
(f) Ability to accurately perform pre-analytical, analytical, and post-analytical phases of testing.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


Minimum Requirement for GS-11 Level


6.
Clinical Laboratory Scientist, GS-11

Please select the option below that best describes your experience/education to meet the grade requirements.
 Experience. 1 year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade level.
 Education. Must have 3 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education or a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in medical technology or a directly related science. NOTE: Transcript is required if claiming education.
 I do not meet the criteria as described above.


Demonstrate Knowledge, Skills and Abilities GS-11


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


7.
In addition to the experience or education above, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

(a) Knowledge of professional clinical laboratory science principles, practices, concepts, and theories that support sound, independent work.
(b) Knowledge of laboratory quality control and quality assurance procedures and principles of performance improvement.
(c) Skill in informatics, laboratory data flow, and laboratory processes.
(d) Ability to maintain, troubleshoot, and repair instrumentation.
(e) Ability to use independent technical judgment to analyze and interpret laboratory results.
(f) Ability to read, interpret, and apply complex written instructions.
(g) Ability to communicate, consult, and interact with other members of the health care team, external relations, customer service, and patient education.

Do you meet the requirements as described above?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙