Position Title
Legal Assistant
Agency
Executive Office for Immigration Review
Announcement Number
DE-12892354-26-MS Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 19, 2026 to Feb 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions AND you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (Note: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility); OR,
are entitled to veterans' preference?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


5.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a veteran who separated from active duty under honorable conditions AND you:
recently separated (within the past 3 years);
are a disabled veteran;
served on active duty in the Armed Forces during a war, or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized; OR,
received an Armed Forces Service Medal?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service. If claiming disability preference, you must also submit the disability letter from the Department of Veterans Affairs or Armed Service and the Application for 10-Point Veteran Preference, Standard Form 15. Note: VRA applies to any grade level up to and including a GS-11 or equivalent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Eloy Immigration Court, Eloy, AZ
 AB. Florence Immigration Court, Florence, AZ
 AW. Phoenix Immigration Court, Phoenix, AZ
 AX. Tucson Immigration Court, Tucson, AZ
 AY. Adelanto Immigration Court, Adelanto, CA
 AZ. Concord Immigration Court, Concord, CA
 BA. Imperial Immigration Court, Imperial, CA
 BB. Los Angeles Immigration Court (N. Los Angeles Street) / West Los Angeles Immigration Court, Los Angeles, CA
 BC. Sacramento Immigration Court, Sacramento, CA
 BD. Otay Mesa Immigration Court, San Diego, CA
 BE. San Diego Immigration Court, San Diego County, CA
 BF. San Francisco SPC Immigration Court, San Francisco, CA
 BG. Santa Ana Immigration Court, Santa Ana, CA
 BH. Los Angeles Immigration Court (Van Nuys Blvd), Van Nuys, CA
 BI. Aurora Immigration Court, Aurora, CO
 BJ. Denver Immigration Court, Denver, CO
 BK. Hartford Immigration Court, Hartford, CT
 BL. Miami Immigration Court, Miami, FL
 BM. Miami Krome (Detained) Immigration Court, Miami Gardens, FL
 BN. Orlando Immigration Court, Orlando, FL
 BO. Atlanta Immigration Court (Ted Turner Drive), Atlanta, GA
 BP. Atlanta Immigration Court (W. Peachtree Street), Atlanta, GA
 BQ. Stewart Immigration Court, Lumpkin, GA
 BR. Honolulu Immigration Court, Honolulu, HI
 BS. Chicago Immigration Court, Chicago, IL
 BT. Indianapolis Immigration Court, Indianapolis, IN
 B. Baton Rouge Immigration Court, Baton Rouge, LA
 C. LaSalle Immigration Court, Jena, LA
 D. New Orleans Immigration Court, New Orleans, LA
 E. Oakdale Immigration Court, Oakdale, LA
 F. Baltimore Immigration Court, Baltimore, MD
 G. Hyattsville Immigration Court, Hyattsville, MD
 H. Boston Immigration Court, Boston, MA
 I. Chelmsford Immigration Court, Chelmsford, MA
 J. Detroit Immigration Court, Detroit, MI
 K. Fort Snelling Immigration Court, Fort Snelling, MN
 L. Kansas City Immigration Court, Kansas City, MO
 M. Omaha Immigration Court, Omaha, NE
 N. Las Vegas Immigration Court, Las Vegas, NV
 O. Elizabeth Immigration Court, Elizabeth, NJ
 P. Newark Immigration Court, Newark, NJ
 Q. Otero Immigration Court, Chaparral, NM
 R. Batavia Immigration Court, Batavia, NY
 S. Buffalo Immigration Court, Buffalo, NY
 T. Ulster Immigration Court, Napanoch, NY
 U. New York Immigration Court (Broadway)/ (Federal Plaza) / (Varick), New York, NY
 V. Charlotte Immigration Court, Charlotte, NC
 W. Saipan Immigration Court, Saipan, Mariana Island, MP
 X. Cleveland Immigration Court, Cleveland, OH
 Y. Portland Immigration Court, Portland, OR
 Z. Philadelphia Immigration Court, Philadelphia, PA
 AA. Guaynabo (San Juan) Immigration Court, Guaynabo, PR
 AC. Memphis Immigration Court, Memphis, TN
 AD. Conroe Immigration Court, Conroe, TX
 AE. Dallas Immigration Court, Dallas County, TX
 AF. El Paso Immigration Court/ El Paso SPC Immigration Court, El Paso County, TX
 AG. Fort Worth IAC Immigration Court, Fort Worth, TX
 AH. Harlingen Immigration Court, Harlingen, TX
 AI. Houston Immigration Court (Jefferson Street), Houston, TX
 AJ. Houston Immigration Court (Greenspoint Park), Houston, TX
 AK. Houston Immigration Court (South Gessner Road), Houston, TX
 AL. Laredo Immigration Court, Laredo, TX
 AM. Port Isabel Immigration Court, Los Fresnos, TX
 AN. Pearsall Immigration Court, Pearsall, TX
 AO. San Antonio Immigration Court, San Antonio, TX
 AP. Salt Lake City Immigration Court, West Valley City, UT
 AQ. Annandale Immigration Court, Annandale, VA
 AR. Falls Church IAC Immigration Court, Falls Church, VA
 AS. Richmond IAC Immigration Court, Richmond, VA
 AT. Sterling Immigration Court, Sterling, VA
 AU. Seattle Immigration Court, Seattle, WA
 AV. Tacoma Immigration Court, Tacoma, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
5
6
7
8


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications as a GS-05 Legal Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12-months) of specialized work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) Preparing and processing standard, routine legal correspondence; 2) Providing information to visitors and telephone callers; 3) Using word processing software and printing devices to produce a variety of standardized documents such as letters and reports; and 4) Maintaining legal files.
 I have successfully completed 4 years of education above the high school level in any field for which high school graduation or the equivalent is the normal prerequisite is creditable. This education was obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college or university. One year of full-time academic study is defined as 30 semester hours, 45 quarter hours, or the equivalent in a college or university, or at least 20 hours of classroom instruction per week for approximately 36 weeks in a business, secretarial, or technical school.
 A combination of specialized experience described in letter A above and post high school education described in letter B above in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) that totals at least one year. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience.
 I do not possess the specialized experience or education in A or B or C above.


2.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications as a GS-06 Legal Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12-months) of specialized work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) Processing motions, petitions and other legal documents; 2) Responding to written, telephonic, electronic, and personal inquiries regarding legal proceedings and records; 3) Assist in the preparation of legal case file materials; and 4) Maintaining and analyzing statistical data.
 I do not have the experience described above.


3.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications as a GS-07 Legal Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12-months) of specialized work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-06 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) scheduling hearings, meetings and engagements; 2) examining case files to determine sufficiency of documentation and to identify material that may be pertinent to issues or cases; 3) conducting research for case information through records, reference and historical material; 4) assisting in retiring files; and 5) generating, modifying, and interpreting computer-generated reports.
 I do not have the experience described above.


4.
Carefully read the following descriptions of experience and education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications as a GS-08 Legal Assistant. Make sure your resume supports your response that you select.
 I have at least one or more full-time years (12-months) of specialized work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service, performing the following duties: 1) applying comprehensive legal regulations, techniques, and procedures to perform assistance work requiring extensive searches of records, reference or historical material and comparisons with complex, voluminous or broadly written criteria; 2) examining and processing charging documents which are voluminous and complex in format; 3) reviewing incoming documents/files and determining the need to create or reassemble a Record of Proceeding (ROP) file and process a variety of legal documents; and 4) conducting extensive searches for case information applying comprehensive legal regulations, specialized techniques, and procedures.
 I do not have the experience described above.


5.
In order to be considered for this position, you must certify your typing speed. Please choose the statement from the list below that best describes your typing proficiency.
 I certify that I type 30-39 words per minute with 3 or fewer errors.
 I certify that I type 40-49 words per minute with 3 or fewer errors.
 I certify that I type 50 or more words per minute with 3 or fewer errors.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙