Position Title
Interdisciplinary
Agency
Defense Contract Management Agency
Announcement Number
DCMA-PC-26-13064514-IMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.

Are you the spouse of a current Department of Defense employee who is being transferred in the interest of the Government from one official station within the Department to another within the Department for permanent duty?

Supporting Documentation: You are required to submit proof of marriage AND permanent change of station (PCS) orders: spouse's PCS orders (showing you as a dependent) and/or copy of marriage certificate. If you are a current or previous Federal employee, please include your most recent SF-50.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?

If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy
• your grade is equivalent to or above the grade level of the vacancy and
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

You will be required to submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of ICTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.  For more information, review the USAJOBS Resource Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Reassignment, Change-to-Lower Grade or Re-promotion to a grade previously held? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.


 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


7.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


8.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


9.
Are you an employee of the agency advertising this position and applying to be considered for a Promotion? You must submit a copy of your most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action.
 Yes
 No


10.
Are you a veteran whose latest discharge was under honorable conditions and you:
served three or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to meet the eligibility) OR
are entitled to veterans preference?
If eligible, submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0801 - General Engineering
 B. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 C. 0854 - Computer Engineering
 D. 0855 - Electronics Engineering
 E. 0861 - Aerospace Engineering
 F. 0896 - Industrial Engineering
 G. 1515 - Operations Research


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
Please provide your preferred DCMA approved location(s) you are interested in working (DCMA Location List), not all locations may be available.
**This is not a remote work position.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Interdisciplinary Engineer/Operations Research Analyst position with Defense Contract Management Agency. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Interdisciplinary Engineer at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.

 I have a bachelor's degree (or higher degree) in engineering. To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree (or higher degree) in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET); OR (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I am currently registered as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT), or licensed as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 C. I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE) examination, or any other written test required for professional registration, by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of education and experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. I have successfully completed at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences that included the courses specified in A above. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I possess a combination of education and experience -- college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying professional engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by following: Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field, e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all-inclusive.) (NOTE: You must provide a letter of reference stating that you have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. The letter must be signed by the engineer who provided the professional engineer supervision. It must also include their name, phone number, and engineer credentials (i.e., engineer education or professional certificates). Lack of this documentation will make you ineligible to be referred). (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My education and/or experience is not reflected in the above statement.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all the statements completely before making your selection
 I possess one year of specialized experience at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Experience in systems engineering concepts, principles, and practices applicable to an engineering management assignment; experience in earned value management system surveillance; experience in earned value management predictive analysis and data analytics; experience in schedule and/or cost management tools and methods; experience in engineering support and requirements definition of complex hardware and software systems; and experience in surveillance of cost, schedule and technical contractor performance.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience and/or education to qualify for this position.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of Operations Research Analyst at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have a Bachelor's Degree or higher in Operations Research
 A Bachelor's Degree or higher with at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours were in calculus.
 My education is not reflected in the above statements


4.
This position requires a key list of governing documents an EVMS analyst relies upon to conduct evaluations. Which of the following documents are explicitly required as a primary guide for this role?

 The DoD Earned Value Management System Interpretation Guide (EVMSIG) and the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations (DFARS).
 The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 quality management standards.
 The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations for manufacturing plants.
 The Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for commercial financial reporting.


5.
An EVMS analyst evaluates various supplier reports. Which of the following is listed as a report an EVMS analyst is expected to provide independent analysis on?

 The supplier's annual corporate financial statements and shareholder reports.
 The supplier's internal human resources and payroll records.
 Marketing and business development plans for future, un-awarded programs.
 Integrated Program Management Data and Analysis Report (IPMDAR) or Integrated Program Management Report (IPMR).


6.
The position requires the use of advanced analytical techniques. Which of the following methods is identified as a technique the EVMS analyst uses to develop agency cost and schedule policies?

 Time-motion studies and direct observation of assembly line workers.
 Customer satisfaction surveys and market focus groups.
 Linear programming, multiple regression, probability analysis, and Monte Carlo simulation.
 Competitor price analysis and reverse engineering of commercial products.


7.
In the context of an Integrated Master Schedule (IMS), what does the term "Total Float" (or Total Slack) represent?

 The overall duration of the project's critical path.
 The total budget variance divided by the schedule variance.
 The amount of time an activity can be delayed without delaying the overall project finish date.
 The difference between the budgeted cost of work scheduled and the actual cost of work performed.


8.
At what intersection within the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a Control Account typically established to integrate scope, schedule, and budget for performance measurement?

 At a natural management intersection point where a specific WBS element is assigned to a single functional manager or organizational entity.
 Exclusively at the highest level (Level 1) of the WBS to monitor top-level corporate overhead.
 At the individual daily task level to track hourly employee labor.
 At the Milestone B decision point, independent of organizational structure.


9.
When participating in an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR), what is the government team's primary responsibility?

 To audit the contractor?s compliance with federal and state environmental protection regulations.
 . To evaluate the contractor's marketing and sales performance over the previous fiscal year.
 To approve the contractor's hiring decisions for key engineering personnel.
 To assess the adequacy of the contract performance measurement baseline in terms of technical scope, schedules, budgets, and earned value methods.


10.
Based on the role of an EVMS analyst, how is day-to-day work managed?

 The employee independently plans and carries out analyses, determining the methodology to be used, and consults with the supervisor on major or controversial issues.
 The supervisor provides detailed step-by-step instructions for every analysis and reviews all work daily.
 All work is assigned and directed by the prime contractor's management team.
 The employee?s tasks are automatically generated and assigned by a project management software tool with no supervisory input.


11.
Which cost estimating methodology relies on a detailed, itemized breakdown of labor hours, material costs, and overhead rates derived from a highly mature engineering bill of materials (BOM)?

 Parametric Estimating
 Engineering Build-Up (Bottoms-Up) Estimating
 Analogy Estimating
 Delphi (Expert Opinion) Estimating


12.
What is the key requirement for this acquisition position regarding certification?

 The incumbent must be a certified Project Management Professional (PMP) prior to being hired.
 The incumbent must complete a master's degree in engineering within the first two years of employment.
 The incumbent must obtain mandatory Back-to-Basics (B2B) certification within 48 months of entry into the position and acquire 80 Continuous Learning Points every 24 months.
 The incumbent is exempt from all certification and continuous learning requirements due to the position's grade level.


13.
An Earned Value Management (EVM) metric known as the To Complete Performance Index (TCPI) is calculated by a program office to determine which of the following?

 The historical cost variance experienced by the contractor over the preceding six-month period.
 The cost performance efficiency that the contractor must achieve on all remaining work to meet a specified financial goal (such as the BAC or EAC).
 The exact percentage of completion of the critical path schedule.
 The overall defect rate discovered during low-rate initial production testing.


14.
What is the primary responsibility for an Earned Value Management Systems (EVMS) analyst?

 To exclusively perform software development for automated modeling and simulation tools like Monte Carlo simulations.
 To act as the primary negotiator for all new DoD contracts, regardless of EVM requirements.
 To serve as the focal point for contract cost/schedule analysis as it applies to EVMS implementation and contractual requirements, and to review and validate program schedules.
 To manage the supplier's manufacturing plant operations and production control processes directly.


15.
Before a contractor begins work on a complex project, they must establish a baseline (the plan used to measure progress). Which of the following is the most important requirement for setting up a valid and reliable baseline?

 It should only focus on the total cost, leaving the schedule and technical tasks flexible.
 It must be kept completely secret from the customer to prevent outside interference.
 It must fully integrate the technical work scope, the project schedule, and the budget so that progress can be measured accurately.
 It should be redesigned every week to match whatever work the team happens to finish.


16.
Your analysis shows that a high-profile project is highly likely to miss its target delivery date by several months. The project manager, who wants to maintain a positive relationship with leadership, asks you to soften your report and present a more optimistic timeline. How should you handle this situation?

 Agree to soften the report to maintain team harmony and avoid upsetting leadership.
 Refuse to speak with the project manager and submit your report directly to the press.
 Present your findings objectively, using clear data and evidence to support your projection, while explaining the risks and potential impacts to leadership.
 Submit a blank report so that you do not have to choose a side.


17.
A project is falling behind schedule. The contractor proposes solving the delay by hiring ten additional junior staff members to work on a highly complex technical task that is already halfway completed. What risk should you point out to the Program Manager regarding this proposal?

 Hiring more people late in a complex task can actually cause further delays, as existing experts must stop their work to train the new staff, and communication paths become more complicated.
 Junior staff members are legally prohibited from working on tasks that are already in progress.
 There is no risk; doubling the number of people on a task always cuts the remaining time exactly in half.
 The only risk is that the office will run out of physical desk space for the new employees.


18.
A project team is planning a task that takes exactly one week to complete (such as installing a specific software update on a server). They need to select a simple rule to measure their progress for this short task. Which progress-tracking method is the most objective and efficient for very short-duration tasks?

 The "0/100" rule, where 0% progress is recorded until the task is 100% complete and verified. This prevents the team from claiming partial progress on a short task that is not yet usable.
 Asking the team members to guess their percentage of completion on a daily basis (e.g., 12%, 37%, 82%).
 Automatically earning 10% progress every day, regardless of whether any actual work has been done.
 Assuming the task is 100% complete the moment it is assigned to an employee.


19.
A project has a specific backup budget set aside strictly for unexpected emergencies (contingency/management reserve). The project manager wants to use these emergency funds to cover routine cost overruns caused by poor daily labor productivity on standard tasks. Is this an appropriate use of emergency backup funds?

 Yes, because any extra money should be spent as quickly as possible to keep the budget active.
 No. Emergency reserves are meant for unexpected, out-of-scope risks, not to cover up poor performance or inefficiencies on planned, routine work.
 Yes, but only if the contractor promises to work faster next month to earn the money back.
 No, because contingency funds can only be spent on marketing and team-building events.


20.
A contractor proposes collecting and calculating their schedule progress on a weekly cycle, but only compiling their actual cost data once every two months. As the analyst, what major reporting problem should you point out regarding this mismatched schedule?

 The mismatched cycles will make it impossible to calculate accurate, real-time cost-efficiency metrics, as the work completed (earned value) will not align with the actual costs recorded.
 Collecting schedule progress weekly will cause the project's scheduling software to run out of memory.
 Actual costs must be updated daily, or the project?s bank account will be automatically frozen.
 There is no problem; cost and schedule data do not need to align to measure overall project health.


21.
A project team is developing a brand-new technology that has never been built before. They have placed the highly risky testing phase at the very end of the project schedule, with zero buffer time before the final delivery date. What scheduling advice should you provide to the Program Manager?

 Advise them to restructure the schedule. High-risk testing should be conducted as early as possible, or buffer time must be added, because discovering critical defects late in a project is incredibly expensive and guarantees a major schedule delay.
 Support the plan, as saving the hardest and most unpredictable work for the very last day keeps the team highly motivated.
 Recommend skipping the testing phase entirely to ensure the project meets its original delivery date on paper.
 Suggest they replace the new technology with outdated, obsolete equipment to avoid the need for testing.


22.
While evaluating a project plan, you notice that a contractor has set up a single, massive "work package" that spans 18 months and has a budget of $5 Million, with no intermediate milestones or checkpoints. What is the primary management risk of having work packages that are too large?

 It hides performance problems. You will not be able to detect if the work is slipping or overrunning until the entire 18-month period has ended, which is too late to take corrective action.
 Large work packages automatically double the tax rate the contractor must pay on their corporate profits.
 It forces the contractor to use twice as many managers to oversee the same amount of work.
 It has no impact on oversight, as long as the total budget matches the contract ceiling.


23.
The contractor's automated scheduling software reports that the project has "zero schedule risk" and will finish exactly on time. However, your manual review of their data reveals that several key tasks are missing logical links to their predecessors. How should you reconcile this difference?

 Trust the software over manual judgment, as computerized algorithms are always free from errors and omissions.
 Trust your manual review. Automated tools can only calculate schedules based on the logic entered into them; if the underlying logic is missing or broken, the software's output is highly inaccurate.
 Instruct the contractor to delete the software and perform all future calculations using hand-drawn paper charts.
 Average the two findings together to present a "middle-ground" estimate to project leadership.


24.
A contractor's report claims they have completed 50% of the physical work on a task, but their labor records show they have only spent 5% of the planned labor hours. The task involves highly labor-intensive manual assembly work. What should you investigate first?

 Investigate whether the contractor is prematurely "earning" progress on paper to make the project look ahead of schedule, as it is highly unlikely to complete half of a manual task with almost no labor spent.
 Commend the contractor for their extreme efficiency and recommend they cut their remaining labor budget by 90%.
 Assume the labor records are lost and instruct the contractor to stop tracking labor hours entirely.
 Accept the progress report as is, since the physical work has been signed off by the contractor's internal management.


25.
A major technical failure has occurred on the project floor, which will delay the final delivery by three months. The contractor is preparing a press release that downplays the delay as a "minor administrative adjustment." As the government's independent analyst, what is your role in reporting this event?

 Provide an independent, objective assessment of the delay, the root cause, and the realistic impact to the Program Office, ensuring government leadership has accurate data to make decisions.
 Help the contractor draft their press release to ensure the project continues to look successful to the public.
 Remain silent to avoid creating friction between the contractor and the government's program manager.
 Leak the technical failure data to external media outlets before informing the Program Office.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙