Position Title
Information Technology Specialist (Computer Specialist)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
BOP-N-2026-0030 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 23, 2026 to Sep 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?

The Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an interagency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:
You are a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF); AND
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce; AND
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were separated from; AND
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.
For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a Veteran with a Service-connected disability of 30% or more?

You may qualify as a disabled Veteran if you separated from active duty under honorable conditions, and you must have a service-connected disability rating of 30% of more, as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs. You may also qualify for this eligibility if you were awarded a Purple Heart for your service. For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214) form, Member 2 or Member 4 copy. Additionally, you will need to submit the SF-15, Application of 10-point Veterans Preference form, and your VA Letter indicating your combined service-connected disability rating.

Review the Required Documents section of the vacancy announcement for additional information.
 Yes
 No


6.
Please choose the answer that best describes your status as a veteran:
 I am not a veteran
 I was separated from the armed forces under honorable conditions after completing a continuous tour of duty of 3 years or was released just short of 3 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was discharged or released from active duty for a service-connected disability within the last 10 years.
 I did not serve at least 180 days on active duty but was a Reserve or National Guard member ordered to active duty during a period of war, campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge was authorized.


7.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


8.
Please indicate whether you have engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, lockup, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution.
 Yes
 No


9.
Please indicate whether you have been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


10.
Please indicate whether you have been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in sexual activity in the community facilitated by force, overt of implied threats of force, or coercion, or if the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse.
 Yes
 No


11.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


12.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. FCI ALICEVILLE, Aliceville, AL
 AB. FPC MONTGOMERY, Maxwell AFB, AL
 BC. FCI TALLADEGA, Talladega, AL
 BR. FCI PHOENIX, Phoenix, AZ
 BS. FCI SAFFORD, Safford, AZ
 BT. FCC TUCSON, Tucson, AZ
 BU. FCC FORREST CITY, Forrest City, AR
 BV. USP ATWATER, Atwater, CA
 BW. FCI HERLONG, Herlong Sierra Ordnance Depot, CA
 BX. FCC LOMPOC, Lompoc, CA
 BY. MDC LOS ANGELES, Los Angeles, CA
 BZ. FCI MENDOTA, Mendota, CA
 CA. MCC SAN DIEGO, San Diego, CA
 CB. FCC VICTORVILLE, Victorville, CA
 CC. FCC FLORENCE, Florence, CO
 CD. FCI ENGLEWOOD, Littleton, CO
 CE. FCI DANBURY, Danbury, CT
 CF. FCC COLEMAN, Coleman, FL
 CG. FCI MARIANNA, Marianna, FL
 CH. FCI MIAMI, Miami, FL
 CI. FDC MIAMI, Miami-Dade County, FL
 CJ. FCI TALLAHASSEE, Tallahassee, FL
 CK. FCI ATLANTA, Atlanta, GA
 CL. FCI JESUP, Jesup, GA
 CM. FDC HONOLULU, Honolulu, HI
 CN. MCC CHICAGO, Chicago, IL
 B. FCI GREENVILLE, Greenville, IL
 C. FCI MARION, Marion, IL
 D. FCI PEKIN, Pekin, IL
 E. FCI THOMSON, Thomson, IL
 F. FCC TERRE HAUTE, Terre Haute, IN
 G. FCI LEAVENWORTH, Leavenworth, KS
 H. FCI ASHLAND, Ashland, KY
 I. USP BIG SANDY, Inez, KY
 J. FMC LEXINGTON, Lexington, KY
 K. FCI MANCHESTER, Manchester, KY
 L. USP MCCREARY, Pine Knot, KY
 M. FCC OAKDALE, Oakdale, LA
 N. FCC POLLOCK, Pollock, LA
 O. FCI CUMBERLAND, Cumberland, MD
 P. FMC DEVENS, Fort Devens, MA
 Q. FCI MILAN, Milan, MI
 R. FSL DULUTH, Duluth, MN
 S. FMC ROCHESTER, Rochester, MN
 T. FCI SANDSTONE, Sandstone, MN
 U. FCI WASECA, Waseca, MN
 V. FCC YAZOO CITY, Yazoo City, MS
 W. USMCFP SPRINGFIELD, Springfield, MO
 X. FCI BERLIN, Berlin, NH
 Y. FCI FAIRTON, Fairton, NJ
 Z. FCI FORT DIX, Fort Dix, NJ
 AA. MDC BROOKLYN, Kings, NY
 AC. FCI OTISVILLE, Otisville, NY
 AD. FCI RAY BROOK, Ray Brook, NY
 AE. FCC BUTNER, Butner Federal Correctional Complex, NC
 AF. FCI ELKTON, Elkton, OH
 AG. FCI EL RENO, El Reno, OK
 AH. FTC OKLAHOMA CITY, Oklahoma City, OK
 AI. FCI SHERIDAN, Sheridan, OR
 AJ. FCC ALLENWOOD, Gregg Township, PA
 AK. FCI LEWISBURG, Kelly Township, PA
 AL. FCI MCKEAN, Lewis Run, PA
 AM. FCI LORETTO, Loretto, PA
 AN. FCI SCHUYLKILL, Minersville, PA
 AO. FDC PHILADELPHIA, Philadelphia, PA
 AP. USP CANAAN, Waymart, PA
 AQ. MDC GUAYNABO, Guaynabo, PR
 AR. FCI BENNETTSVILLE, Bennettsville, SC
 AS. FCI EDGEFIELD, Edgefield, SC
 AT. FCI ESTILL, Estill, SC
 AU. FCI WILLIAMSBURG, Salters, SC
 AV. FPC YANKTON, Yankton, SD
 AW. FCI MEMPHIS, Memphis, TN
 AX. FCI BASTROP, Bastrop, TX
 AY. FCC BEAUMONT, Beaumont, TX
 AZ. FPC BRYAN, Bryan, TX
 BA. FMC CARSWELL, Federal Medical Center Carswell, TX
 BB. FMC FORT WORTH, Fort Worth, TX
 BD. FDC HOUSTON, Houston, TX
 BE. FCI SEAGOVILLE, Seagoville, TX
 BF. FCI TEXARKANA, Texarkana, TX
 BG. FCI THREE RIVERS, Three Rivers, TX
 BH. USP LEE, Jonesville, VA
 BI. FCC PETERSBURG, Prince George, VA
 BJ. FDC SEATAC, Seatac, WA
 BK. FPC ALDERSON, Alderson, WV
 BL. FCI BECKLEY, Beaver, WV
 BM. FCC HAZELTON, Bruceton Mills, WV
 BN. FCI GILMER, Glenville, WV
 BO. FSL MORGANTOWN, Morgantown, WV
 BP. FCI MCDOWELL, Welch, WV
 BQ. FCI OXFORD, Grand Marsh, WI


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Your application must describe your work and experience, in your own words. If you fail to provide requested information, or the information submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for the position.



Applicants may qualify by meeting the minimum proficiency level established for the competencies required at the grade level for which they are applying. The definitions of all competencies that may be required for this position are provided below.

Competency Definitions:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Decision Making - Makes sound, well-informed, and objective decisions; perceives the impact and implications of decisions; commits to action, even in uncertain situations, to accomplish organizational goals; causes change.
Information Management - Identifies a need for and knows where or how to gather information; organizes and maintains information or information management systems.
Interpersonal Skills - Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well to people from varied backgrounds and different situations.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
Teamwork - Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.
Technical Competence - Uses knowledge that is acquired through formal training or on-the-job experience to perform one's job; works with, understands, and evaluates technical information related to the job; advises others on technical issues.


1.
To be considered for this position you must meet the below requirements:

Basic Requirements for GS-11:

Applicants may qualify by meeting or exceeding the minimum proficiency level established for each of the required competencies.  The required competencies for the GS-11 grade level are Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Interpersonal Skills, Problem Solving, Teamwork, and Technical Competence.

AND

Specialized Experience:

You must have one year of specialized experience at the GL-09 grade level (or equivalent). Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies to perform successfully the duties of the position and is related to the work of the position to be filled but may now be obtained through other means. Such demonstratable knowledge, skills, and abilities/competences may be typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.

OR

Applicants may also be considered to have satisfied the minimum qualification requirements for a position if they can present evidence that clearly justifies a high evaluation of their competence, such as one or more of the following: 
Appropriate licensure, registration(s), certification(s); or
A substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrates eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field.

Applicants can qualify fully on the basis of licensure, certification, registration, or special training as an alternative to experience. Applicants must provide copies of all such documentation when submitting an application.


Do you meet one of the basic requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement for this grade level based on meeting the minimum proficiency level for each required competency and having at least one year of experience at the GL-09 grade level (or equivalent), as reflected in my application.
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement for this grade level based on appropriate licensure, registration(s), or certification(s); or a substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrates eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field, as documented in my application.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirement for this grade level.


2.
To be considered for this position you must meet the below requirements:

Basic Requirements for GS-12:

Applicants may qualify by meeting or exceeding the minimum proficiency level established for each of the required competencies.  The required competencies for the GS-12 grade level are Attention to Detail, Customer Service, Decision Making, Information Management, Interpersonal Skills, Oral Communication, Problem Solving, Teamwork, and Technical Competence.

AND

Specialized Experience:

You must have one year of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level (or equivalent). Specialized experience is experience that has equipped the applicant with the knowledge, skills, and abilities/competencies to perform successfully the duties of the position and is related to the work of the position to be filled but may now be obtained through other means. Such demonstratable knowledge, skills, and abilities/competences may be typically gained in the IT field or through the performance of work where the primary concern is IT.

OR

Applicants may also be considered to have satisfied the minimum qualification requirements for a position if they can present evidence that clearly justifies a high evaluation of their competence, such as one or more of the following: 
Appropriate licensure, registration(s), certification(s); or
A substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrates eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field.

Applicants can qualify fully on the basis of licensure, certification, registration, or special training as an alternative to experience. Applicants must provide copies of all such documentation when submitting an application.


Do you meet one of the basic requirements listed above?
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement for this grade level based on meeting the minimum proficiency level for all required competencies and having one year of experience at the GL-11 level (or equivalent), as noted in my application.
 Yes, I meet the basic requirement for this grade level based on appropriate licensure, registration(s), or certification(s); or a substantial record of experience, achievement, and publications that demonstrates eminence in the appropriate profession/technical field, as documented in my application.
 No, I do not meet the basic requirement for this grade level.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙