Position Title
Interdisciplinary - Biologist/Physical Scientist
Agency
Geological Survey
Announcement Number
USGS-SAC-26-12946993-DHA-PC Opens in new window
Open Period
May 06, 2026 to May 12, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please mark "YES" to all eligibility options below for which you wish to be considered. We can only verify eligibility options for which you claim and provide proper documentation. Please see the "Required Documents" section of the announcement for specific requirements.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current Department of the Interior employee who meets the definition of surplus or displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you will be separated; and
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you will be separated; and
You have a current performance rating of record of at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You have not yet been separated. 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former employee of a Federal agency (other than the Department of the Interior) who meets the definition of displaced from a position in the competitive service that makes you eligible under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP)?  If yes, please confirm that you meet all the following eligibility requirements:
This position is in the same local commuting area as the position of record from which you were separated; and
This position is at a grade level no higher than the grade of the position of record from which you were separated; and 
This position has no greater promotion potential than the position of record from which you were separated; and
Your last performance rating of record was at least fully successful or the equivalent; and
You were separated from your position of record less than one year ago.    
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Lakewood, CO
 B. Reston, VA


2.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0401 - General Natural Resources Management And Biological Sciences
 B. 1301 - General Physical Science


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


3.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


4.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


5.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


6.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


7.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Basic Requirements for GS-0401: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Biologists.

 I have successfully completed 4-years of college study leading to a bachelor`s degree in the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines appropriate to the position.
 I have successfully completed 24 semester hours in an accredited college or university in the biological sciences, agriculture, natural resource management, chemistry, or related disciplines and have additional work experience and/or education comparable to the completion of a 4-year course of study in one of the disciplines identified above. I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


2.
Basic Requirements for GS-1301: Choose the one answer that best describes your education and experience as it pertains to the mandatory basic requirements for Physical Scientists.

 I have successfully completed all requirements for a bachelor’s degree in physical science, engineer, or mathematics that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science such as mechanics, dynamics, properties or materials, and electronics.
 I possess a combination of education and experience/course work is equivalent to a major in physical or engineering science or math that included 24 semester hours in physical science and/or related engineering science.
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


3.
GS-14: In addition to meeting the Basic Requirements, you must have professional experience. Select the response below that best describes your experience.

 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent in level of difficulty and responsibility to at least the next lower grade level in the Federal service as described in the qualifications section of the vacancy announcement that has equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to perform successfully the duties of this position.
 I do not meet the requirements as described.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge that all the information in my application is true, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education. I understand that providing false or fraudulent information may be grounds for not hiring me or for firing me after I begin work. I also certify that I have read the entire vacancy announcement; that I have reviewed my answers to the eligibility questions for accuracy; and that I understand what supporting documentation, if any, is required for submission and when it's due.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙