Position Title
Support Services Specialist
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
319-26-FGG-13047235(BU) Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 29, 2026 to Sep 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Commuting Area
1.
1. Do you currently reside within the local commuting area of the Columbia Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina?
 Yes
 No


2.
2. If no, do you intend to relocate to the local commuting area of the Columbia Regional Office in Columbia, South Carolina, if selected for the position? ]

 

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Columbia, South Carolina Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. Note: For the purpose of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area are considered facility employees.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Columbia, SC VBA Regional Office?

 Yes, and I will submit my most recent, non-award SF-50 to verify my employment.
 No, but I am a current/ former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


As a current Federal, GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements. Note: You must submit your SF-50 reflecting when you entered your highest grade and step (e.g. Within Grade Increase, Promotion, Appointment, etc.) as defined in the "Required Document" section of this Job Announcement.


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have held a GS-7 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-5 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA), Schedule A Appointment, or I am a 30% or more disabled veteran and wish to bypass time in-grade requirement.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me.


3.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you?

 I have held a GS-9 or higher grade.
 I have one year in a GS-7 position (or higher).
 I am eligible for a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA), Schedule A Appointment, or I am a 30% or more disabled veteran and wish to bypass time in-grade requirements.
 Neither A, B, nor C applies to me


This job series has an Individual Occupational Requirement (IOR). Specialized Experience (for positions above GS-5): One year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower level in the normal line of progression that demonstrated knowledge of the methods and procedures for providing or performing a variety of functions and services applicable to the position to be filled; ability to plan, organize, and control work involving diverse activities; ability to gain cooperation and coordinate the work of others; and skill in oral and written communications. Examples of qualifying specialized experience include: Management analyst or technician or other work that included study, analysis, or evaluation leading to the development or improvement of managerial or administrative policies, practices, and procedures. Administrative officer or assistant, budget administration, program analysis, or other work that demonstrated knowledge of an organization and its functions, and the ways in which support services can facilitate the work of the organization. Office management experience included responsibility for directing a variety of support services such as typing, mail processing, purchase of supplies and equipment, etc. Secretarial work that required monitoring and coordinating administrative and processing work of subordinate elements through a system of internal procedures, controls, production, progress reporting, etc., to insure the efficient operation of an organization. Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc. OR Education Undergraduate Education: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in any field leading to a bachelor's degree, in an accredited college or university, is qualifying for GS-5 level positions. Graduate Education: Major study -- public administration, business administration, industrial engineering, industrial management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled. For some positions in this series graduate education may not provide the knowledge and skills needed to perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience may be required for such positions. One full academic year of graduate-level education is creditable for GS-7; 2 years or a master's or equivalent graduate degree is creditable for GS-9


4.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you:

 I have a experience working as a Management Analyst or technician, Administrative Officer or Assistant, Budget administration, Program analysis, Office management experience, Secretarial work , Military experience that included responsibility for directing a variety of support functions such as communications, property management, mail service, facilities and equipment maintenance, etc.
 I have a master’s degree in Public Administration, Business Administration, Industrial Engineering, Industrial Management, or other administrative or management fields related to the position to be filled.
 I have both A and B
 I do not have a degree or experience as listed above.


5.
To qualify at the GS-7 grade, you must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-5 level or higher. Specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: data gathering; applying knowledge of standardized processes and procedures to complete assignments, identify problems from collected data and select solutions from alternatives in guidelines and precedent cases; OR Applicant may substitute education for experience with one (1) full academic year of graduate level is credible for GS-7.

 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-5 level or equivalent.
 I have One (1) full academic year of graduate-level education
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have the minimal specialized experience or education as listed above.


6.
Based on the selections below, please choose the answer that best describes how you meet specialized experience at the GS-09 level: Specialized experience would typically include but are not limited to: Experience assisting with the facility, equipment, and /or service operation design projects; Assisting with analyzing and assessing the efficiency of effectiveness of various Administrative programs, functions and systems, giving oral and written presentations OR applicant may substitute education for experience with 2 full year or master' s or equivalent graduate degree is credible for GS-9.

 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-7 level or equivalent.
 I have two (2) years or a master's or equivalent graduate degree.
 I have a combination of education and experience.
 I do not have the specialized experience or education requirement as listed in the vacancy announcement.


7.
Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment. Please choose A to certify that your answers are accurate and complete.

 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete.
 I do not wish to certify. I understand that I will not be considered for this position
 Failed to Respond


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙