Position Title
Bookbinder II (Journeyman)
Agency
Bureau of Engraving and Printing
Announcement Number
26-BEP-12892155-A Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 20, 2026 to Mar 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current Bureau of Engraving and Printing employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current BEP employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current BEP employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current BEP employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
As outlined in the vacancy announcement, you must submit a copy of your most recent completed annual performance appraisal (i.e. final annual performance appraisal issued and signed by appropriate management official) dated within the last 18 months. If you have not submitted an appraisal meeting these specific requirements, you must explain why you are unable to do so. If you fail to provide a copy of the performance appraisal, or a statement advising why it is unavailable, you will be removed from further consideration. NOTE: If you are wanting to be considered for non competitive reinstatement a performance appraisal document MUST be submitted to be eligible. Type "yes" in the text box below if you are providing a performance appraisal meeting the above requirements with your application. If you are unable to provide a performance appraisal with your application meeting the requirement, please provide a reason in the text box below. ("N/A" is not considered an acceptable response).


4.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


5.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


7.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


8.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the description below, choose the statement that best describes the highest level of experience you possess to perform the duties of a Bookbinder II, WE-4441-3, without more than normal supervision:
 I have the ability to independently perform the most difficult and complex Bookbinder II duties. As a journeyman, I provide routine direction to subordinates to perform their duties, only seeking supervisory guidance for unique situations.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Bookbinder II duties. As a journeyman, I provide occasional guidance to subordinates in order to perform their duties, referring unique situations to a supervisor.
 I have the ability to perform common Bookbinder II duties. As a journeyman, I can assist others in completing their duties under close supervision.
 I have the ability to perform simple Bookbinder II duties. I can follow established procedures to perform work under direct supervision.
 I do not have the ability to perform any Bookbinder II duties and am not at the Journeyman level of training.


2.
Choose the statement that best describes your experience in performing tasks related to the operation of bookbinding equipment:
 As a Journeyman-level Bookbinder, I have independently operated automated, multi-functional processing equipment, utilized display monitors to control the OCIS, performed daily monitoring and analysis of historical data, and made technical adjustments/troubleshooting as required.
 As a Journeyman-level Bookbinder, I have operated automated, multi-functional processing equipment, utilized display monitors to control the OCIS, performed monitoring of historical data, and reported errors as required.
 As a Journeyman-level Bookbinder, I have operated automated, multi-functional processing equipment, experience utilizing the OCIS, and performed daily monitoring and of historical data to provide reports.
 I have operated bookbinder equipment under direct supervision and have some knowledge of systems used to monitor data.
 I can complete none of the above tasks in relation to performing tasks related to the operation of bookbinding equipment.


3.
Select the following pieces of equipment that you have experience operating related to completing Bookbinding duties:
 A. High Speed Drills
 B. Cutters
 C. Folders
 D. Trimmers
 E. I have not used any of the above pieces of equipment as a Bookbinder.


4.
Select all of the following pieces of equipment you have experience using:
 A. Ruler
 B. Feeler Gauge
 C. Line Gauge
 D. Measuring Loop
 E. I have not used any of the above pieces of equipment as a Bookbinder.


5.
Please select from the responses below the answer that  best describes your experience in analyzing and interpreting instructions and data:
 I have experience as a Journeyman-level Bookbinder independently analyzing and interpreting both instructions and data to make adaptations to rapid changes in job specifications, customer quality requirements, and unique operational job/equipment instruction changes.
 I have experience as a Journeyman-level Bookbinder using established guidance to analyze and interpret instructions and data to make adaptations to changes in job specifications, customer quality requirements, and routine operational job/equipment instruction changes.
 I have experience as a Journeyman-level Bookbinder interpreting instructions and data to make minor adaptations to routine changes in job specifications, customer quality requirements, and simple operational equipment instruction changes.
 I have experience interpreting instructions under direct supervision to make routine adjustments to job specifications and minor operational equipment changes as required.
 I no experience in analyzing and interpreting data to perform the duties of my position.


6.
Choose the statement below that best reflects your ability to demonstrate leadership and collaboration within a team environment:
 I have independently provided direction to non-craft workers who are assigned to my work area or operation.
 I have provided guidance and directives to non-craft workers who are assigned to my work area with minimal supervision.
 I have led a team of workers who are assigned to my work area or operation to accomplish a set goal or task.
 I have worked within a team environment to accomplish daily goals or tasks established by a supervisor.
 None of the above.


7.
Select the answer that best describes your experience in monitoring quality assurance of any product that is bound, folded, or processed:
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I have independently monitored and analyzed finished products, made determinations on the product meeting customer quality standards, and provided technical solutions as required.
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I have used established guidance to monitor and analyze finished products to make determinations on the product meeting customer quality standards.
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I have used guidance to analyze finished products and report findings to a supervisor.
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I have minimal experience in performing quality assurance to meet customer quality standards.
 I have little to no experience in quality assurance standards.


8.
From the choices below, please select the answer that best describes your ability to troubleshoot and repair manufacturing equipment:
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I am able to independently perform inspections of equipment and materials, diagnose and troubleshoot malfunctions, and complete repairs as needed on a full range of bookbinding equipment.
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I am able to use guidance to perform inspection of equipment and materials, diagnose malfunctions, and complete repairs as needed with minimal assistance on bookbinding equipment.
 As a Journeyman Bookbinder, I am able to perform routine inspection of equipment and materials, diagnose minor malfunctions, and complete repairs as needed on bookbinding equipment.
 As a Bookbinder, I can perform inspection of equipment and complete minor repairs as needed under direct supervision.
 I am unable to perform troubleshooting and repairs on manufacturing equipment.


9.
Select from the responses below the statement that best describes your ability to safely handle hazardous materials:
 Followed RCRA/OSHA guidelines for handling hazardous materials, operated forklifts, manual, and power lifting devices to transport and store materials, and inspected all hazardous materials for proper identification labels for storage.
 Followed RCRA/OSHA guidelines for handling hazardous materials, operated manual/power lifting devices to transport and store materials, and ensured all hazardous materials have proper identification labels for storage.
 Followed RCRA/OSHA guidelines for handling hazardous materials, operated manual devices to transport and store materials, and ensured all hazardous materials have proper identification labels for storage.
 I have ensured that hazardous materials have proper identification labels for storage.
 I do not have experience as outlined above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙