Position Title
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL AFFAIRS OFFICER (TRAINEE)
Agency
Foreign Agricultural Service
Announcement Number
DE-13038851-26-FAS-IS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Oct 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current USDA employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee, in which received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF)? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than USDA? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;  AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

 For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 
 
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


2.
Would you accept a term appointment?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal or FSA County Annuity?
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you ever received a voluntary separation incentive payment (VSIP or buyout) to leave the Federal civilian service or FSA County position?
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you a current or former: Political appointee, Presidential appointee, and/or non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) appointee?
 Yes
 No


PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS CAREFULLY. Your answers will be used to determine your eligibility to apply to this job opportunity announcement. You will be considered under the eligibility option(s) to which you answer YES. Select YES to all eligibility options for which you want to be considered. If you respond NO to meeting the criteria for all the eligibilities, you will not be considered for the position(s) under this announcement.

NOTE: You must submit the required supporting documentation to receive consideration for EACH selected eligibility. Failure to provide the required documents will result in an ineligible rating and your application will be excluded from consideration.


6.
I understand submission of supporting documentation, e.g., transcripts, DD 214, 50B, performance appraisal may be required for this position. I also understand that my application will not be considered if the required supporting documentation is not submitted or is not submitted in accordance with the time frames indicated in the announcement.
 Yes
 No


7.
I understand that any correspondence necessary will be conducted via e-mail and sent to the e-mail address I provided in this application process. I must keep this e-mail address current.
 Yes
 No


8.
I understand that if I am a current or former federal employee, I must submit an SF-50 showing my career/career-conditional status AND a performance appraisal dated within 18 months or as statement detailing the reason for not submitting the appraisal as part of the application package.
 Yes
 No


9.
This announcement has an applicant cap. Please refer to the announcement for more information.
I understand the announcement will be removed from USAJOBS at 11:59 PM ET on the day the applicant cap is reached and applications are not considered if submitted after the announcement has been removed.
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is the lead U.S. agency tasked with promoting exports of U.S. agricultural products. The Department is focused on selecting well-qualified candidates for the position of Foreign Agricultural Affairs Officer (Trainee), GS-0135. The position is designated as 'trainee' until the employee has completed all training requirements and begins their first overseas assignment. Employees are typically in Washington, D. C. for two years prior to their first overseas assignment. Your responses to the items below will give us a better idea of your suitability for candidacy. Please choose the response that best describes your highest level of competency in meeting the minimum qualification requirements for this position, as you understand them. (Note: one year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week you must prorate your experience.


1.
Please choose the response that best describes your highest level of competency in meeting the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-09 level.

 I have one year or more of specialized experience that was equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service assisting with professional work in one of the following three areas: Assisting in the evaluation of government regulatory policies and/ or economic data related to trade or food security. Assisting with the application of qualitative and/or quantitative methods to analyze markets and commercial trends, assess agricultural conditions, and/or assess production supply and demand. Assisting in planning and implementation of export promotion campaigns or food and agricultural development initiatives. This experience is described in my application for this position. (Note: one year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week you must pro-rate your experience).
 I have successfully completed a master’s degree (or equivalent) or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, in a field of study that is directly related to the duties of this position, such as: economics, agricultural or applied economics, statistics, or another directly related field of study from an accredited university. I have/will submit copies of my college transcripts as part of my application package to support this response and I understand that failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.
 I possess a combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience as described in responses A and B that meet the total qualification requirements. The total percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify for the GS-09 grade level. I have/will show evidence of this experience in my resume and I have/will submit copies of my college transcripts. I understand that failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.
 I do not possess the specialized experience and/or education required in order to qualify for this position at the GS-09 level.


2.
Please choose the response that best describes your highest level of competency in meeting the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-11 level.

 I possess one year or more of specialized experience that was equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service that included experience assisting with or performing professional work in two of the following four areas: Independently conducting qualitative and/or quantitative analysis of government policies related to trade or food security and synthesizes findings into reports. Independently conducting market research to identify shifts in consumer behavior and emerging market trends to develop strategic recommendations that inform marketing campaigns or stakeholder engagement efforts. Independently conducting qualitative and quantitative research and analysis to assess markets trends, agricultural conditions, and/or supply and demand of commodities to produce analytical reports to inform decision-makers and stakeholders. Independently planning and implementing of export promotion campaign activities or food and agricultural development initiatives.
 I have successfully completed at least three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. degree in a related field of study such as: economics, agricultural or applied economics, statistics, or another directly related field of study from an accredited university. I have/will submit copies of my college transcripts as part of my application package and I understand that failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.
 I possess a combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience as described in responses A and B that meet the total qualification requirements for the GS-11 level. I understand that the total combined percentages must equal at least 100 percent to qualify for the GS-11 grade level based on a combination of education and experience. I understand that only graduate education beyond the second full-time year may be combined with experience for the GS-11 level. I have/will show evidence of this experience in my resume and I have/will submit copies of my college transcripts. I understand that failure to do so will result in an ineligible rating.
 I do not possess the specialized experience or education required in order to qualify for these positions at the GS-11 level.


3.
Please choose the response that best describes your highest level of competency in meeting the minimum qualification requirements for this position at the GS-12 level.

 I have one year or more of experience performing professional work in one of the following three areas: Leading and conducting complex qualitative and quantitative analysis of government policies related to trade and food security that supports decisionmakers and stakeholders. Leading analysis of consumer trends, market demand and/or behavioral patterns and synthesizes the results into strategic recommendations that are communicated in reports, briefings, or used to develop marketing campaigns. Appling advanced analytical methods and forecasting techniques to develop data-driven recommendations for program development, marketing strategies, and outreach initiatives; and / or managing and conducting complex qualitative and quantitative analysis of agricultural conditions, production, supply, and demand. Developing predictive models and trend forecasts using advanced statistical techniques and synthesizing findings into actionable reports and analytical briefings. Leading planning and implementing of export promotion campaigns and activities or food and agricultural development initiatives. (Note: one year of specialized experience is based on a 40-hour work week. If you have worked less than 40 hours per week you must pro-rate your experience).
 I do not possess the specialized experience required to qualify for this position at the GS-12 level.


Answer all questions below, choosing the answer that most closely represents your level of education and experience. All responses to the following questions MUST be supported by the information provided in your written application, i.e., resume and transcripts. Your references will be checked, and you may be asked to provide further evidence or documentation of what you included in your application. Please note that the assessments of your knowledge, competencies, skills, and abilities we are asking you to make are not necessarily presented in order of increasing challenge or demand, for that reason, you must read through all options carefully before rating yourself.


COMPETENCY ID: 202 Oral Communication.
INSTRUCTIONS: Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.



4.
Please select the item below that best describes your experience with public speaking.
 I have participated in group discussions and informal presentations and am able to express my ideas.
 Have limited experience in public speaking or making formal presentations.
 I delivered formal presentations with clarity and coherence, holding the audience’s attention.
 I have prepared and delivered formal speeches and presentations to both internal and external audiences for my organization(s).
 I have prepared and delivered presentations tailored to fit the audience.
 No experience as described above.


4a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


5.
Please indicate which of the following types of presentation experience you have.
 A. Formal Presentations: These are structured presentations delivered in a formal setting, often with prepared slides or visual aids.
 B. Informal Presentations: These are less structured presentations, often delivered in small group settings or impromptu situations without prepared materials.
 C. Group Discussions: Participating in discussions where ideas are exchanged among a group of people, often in a collaborative setting.
 D. Panel Discussions: Being part of a panel where several individuals discuss a topic or answer questions from an audience.
 E. Debates: Engaging in structured arguments with opposing viewpoints, often in front of an audience.
 F. Public Speeches: Delivering speeches to a public audience, which can include events such as conferences, seminars, interviews, or public meetings.
 G. Training Sessions: Leading educational sessions or workshops to teach others about a specific topic or skill primarily to enhance their performance or capabilities in a specific field or role.
 H. Demonstrations: Showing how something works or demonstrating a process or technique to an audience.
 I. Sales Pitches: Presenting products or services to potential clients or customers to persuade them to make a purchase.
 J. Educational Presentations: Providing information or instruction on a particular topic, often to educate or inform an audience such as lectures in an academic setting.
 K. No experience as described above.


5a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


COMPETENCY ID: 329 Written Communication
INSTRUCTIONS: Expresses facts and ideas in writing in a succinct and organized manner.



6.
Please select the one item below that best describes your writing and editing skills.
 I am interested and willing to learn how to improve my abilities further.
 My writing typically requires only minor editing for grammatical correctness.
 I often serve as the final approving authority for major organizational documents, such as memos, letters, and/or other formal organizational communications.
 I have been able to improve the writing skills of others through editing and coaching.
 I routinely edit the writing of my colleagues’ documents.
 I can convey important concepts and typically have asked others to edit my work for final drafts.
 No experience as described above.


6a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


7.
Please indicate which of the following types of written documents you have experience preparing.
 A. Emails: Electronic messages used for communication within organizations, with colleagues, clients, or stakeholders.
 B. Reports: Formal documents that present findings, analysis, or recommendations based on research or data analysis.
 C. Briefing Memorandums: Internal documents used for communication within an organization, often used to convey information or instructions to senior organizational officials.
 D. Letters: Written communications addressed to specific individuals or groups, often used for formal correspondence or business communication.
 E. Proposals: Documents outlining a plan, project, or idea, often submitted to request funding, support, or approval.
 F. Business Plans: Comprehensive documents outlining a business’s objectives, strategies, and financial forecasts, often used for planning or seeking investment. funding, support, or approval.
 G. Press Releases: Documents issued to media outlets to announce news, events, or updates related to an organization or individual.
 H. Articles and Blog Posts: Written pieces published online or in print, often providing information, analysis, opinions or entertainment on a particular topic.
 I. Policies and Procedures: Documents that outline rules, guidelines, and protocols for conducting activities within an organization.
 J. Presentations: Written or visual materials used to support spoken presentations or lectures, often containing key points, data, and visuals.
 K. No experience as described above.


7a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


COMPETENCY ID: 226  Problem Solving
INSTRUCTIONS: Identifies and analyzes problems; uses sound reasoning to arrive at conclusions; finds alternative solutions to complex problems; distinguishes between relevant and irrelevant information to make logical judgements.



8.
Please select the response below that best describes your level of experience regarding work-related decision-making and problem solving.
 I consistently make solid decisions and can resolve problems at work as they arise.
 I routinely make significant decisions and work to solve important issues or tasks that have major team, divisional, or departmental impacts. I am known for making sound judgments and considering various input sources and perspectives.
 In addition to my own decision-making, I collaborate with others to solve significant issues after consideration of a variety of inputs and circumstances. My colleagues rely on me to make good decisions and present solid solutions to complex problems.
 I anticipate and identify routine problems and their causes in my daily work. I have developed solutions and made accurate judgments in my areas of responsibility.
 I routinely make difficult and complicated high-level decisions based on sound reasoning, impacting major organizational initiatives and strategic direction. I consider short and long-term consequences and counsel others to do the same.
 I do not have related experience.


8a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


9.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience researching and identifying aspects of industry segments or international markets which enable your organization or its clients to penetrate those markets for commercial purposes, establish partnerships, or for the sale and distribution of your organization's products, goods and services.
 I have considerable experience with researching and identifying all aspects of industries or international markets with the aim of assisting my organization or its clients in penetrating those markets for commercial purposes and I have performed these tasks regularly, independently, and effectively.
 I have learned about or am knowledgeable about using various techniques for effectively researching and identifying aspects of industries or international markets with the aim of assisting my organization or its clients in penetrating those markets for commercial purposes but have not yet had the opportunity to employ them.
 I am considered an expert in researching and identifying aspects of industries or international markets with the aim of assisting my organization or its clients in penetrating those markets for commercial purposes and/or I train others in performing such functions. I may have received official recognition for my work in this area, and I have clearly demonstrated my capability in executing the activities associated with the performance of this task.
 I have some experience researching and identifying aspects of industries or international markets with the aim of assisting my organization or its clients in penetrating those markets for commercial purposes and I am generally familiar with the activities associated with this task. However, I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform it well without supervision.
 I do not yet have experience researching and identifying aspects of industry segments or international markets with the aim of assisting my organization or its clients to penetrate those markets for commercial purposes, but I am interested in gaining that ability.


9a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


10.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience compiling, reviewing, and analyzing economic data.
 I have considerable experience compiling, reviewing, and analyzing economic data. I can conduct an analysis of quantitative and qualitative data to identify clear trends, performing these tasks independently and effectively.
 I have learned about techniques for compiling, reviewing, and analyzing economic data, but have not yet applied them in practice.
 I am considered an expert in compiling, reviewing, and analyzing economic data. I may have trained others in these tasks and received official recognition for my work, providing insightful analyses of quantitative data that illustrates both obvious and non-obvious trends.
 I have some experience compiling, reviewing, and analyzing economic data and am generally familiar with what abilities are required to accomplish these tasks. I can perform numerical analysis identifying key information.
 I do not yet have experience compiling, reviewing, and analyzing economic data, but I am interested in learning.


10a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


11.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience participating in the analysis of agricultural commodity markets.
 I have considerable experience analyzing agricultural commodity markets. I have performed this type of analysis independently and effectively.
 I have some experience analyzing agricultural commodity markets and am generally familiar with the activities associated with this task. I can perform this type of analysis at a basic level but would require additional guidance or experience to perform it independently.
 I am considered an expert in analyzing agricultural commodity markets and may have trained others in performing this analysis. I may have received official recognition for my work related to this task and provided useful insights on global agricultural data, analyses, and reports.
 I have learned about agricultural conditions that affect markets and trade but have not yet applied this knowledge in practical analysis.
 I do not yet have experience analyzing agricultural commodity markets, but I am interested in learning.


11a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


12.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience participating in the analysis of government policies and/or commercial practices affecting the marketing and importing interests of U.S. producers and exporters.
 I do not yet have experience analyzing government policies and/or commercial practices affecting the marketing and importing interests of U.S. producers and exporters, but I am interested in learning.
 I have significant experience with the analysis of government policies and/or commercial practices affecting the marketing and importing interests of U.S. producers and exporters. I have consistently contributed valuable insights and analyses in this area.
 I have some experience and I am generally familiar with the activities associated with the execution of analysis of government policies and/or commercial practices affecting the marketing and importing interests of U.S. producers and exporters. I can provide these analyses at basic levels, but would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform them at greater depth without supervision.
 I have considerable experience in analyzing government policies and/or commercial practices affecting the marketing and importing interests of U.S. producers and exporters. I may have trained others in performing these analyses. I have received official recognition for my work related to this task and have provided useful insights on agricultural data that illustrates the impact on marketing and importing interests for the United States.
 I have learned or /been educated on government policies and/or commercial practices that affect markets and trade.


12a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


COMPETENCY ID: 153 Interpersonal Skills
INSTRUCTIONS: Shows understanding, friendliness, courtesy, tact, empathy, concern, and politeness to others; develops and maintains effective relationships with others; may include effectively dealing with individuals who are difficult, hostile, or distressed; relates well and is sensitive to people from varied backgrounds and different situations.



13.
Please select the response that best describes your best assessment of your social skills.
 A. Understanding and Expressing Emotion: I understand the difference between sympathy and empathy, and I am comfortable expressing my feelings and concern for and with others.
 B. Active Listening: I have been told by others that I am a good listener, and I am able to listen first and respond after hearing what others are saying to me.
 C. Handling Interpersonal Challenges: I am at ease when confronted with challenging interpersonal situations.
 D. Mediation and Conflict Resolution: I have been asked to mediate or negotiate conflicts between colleagues, friends, and family.
 E. Expressing Feelings and Opinions: When intense or difficult exchanges, I can express my feelings and opinions without being overly emotional or expressing anger.
 F. Maintaining Composure in Confrontational Situations: I can restrain myself when faced with aggressive or hostile or menacing speakers or actors.
 G. I do not experience as mentioned above.


13a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


14.
Please select the response that best describes your assessment of your previous teamwork experience.
 I have never been a member of a work-related team or project group by an employer.
 I have volunteered to be a member of a work-related team on more than one occasion.
 Co-workers have asked me to join their team to work with them to solve a problem or come up with a new idea or solution to an issue.
 My boss or a manager has selected or assigned me to work on a team project.
 Someone higher up in the organization has assigned me to lead a team tasked with resolving an important cross departmental or cross functional issue or problem.
 I have been asked frequently to lead work teams on problem solving task forces.


14a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


15.
Please select the response that best describes your level of professionalism.
 I am a member of a recognized professional organization that has established regulations, guidelines, expectations, and qualifications for membership.
 I have been asked to serve on a panel or board charged with making a ruling or judgment about the actions or misbehavior of a co-worker.
 I have participated in the drafting of ethical and/or professional guidelines for an organization.
 I have received an award or citation for my accomplishments by an employer, or an education institution.
 I have received an award, or citation for my professional accomplishment(s) by a professional organization of which I am a member.
 I am not a member of a professional organization


15a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


16.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience with work-related networking, i.e. maintaining and leveraging professional and social contacts to gain information, facilitate future working relationships and gain cooperation.
 I am considered an expert in work-related networking and may have trained others in performing it. I have received official recognition for my networking skills and have demonstrated the capability to maintain and leverage professional and social contacts to gain information, facilitate future working relationships and gain cooperation.
 I have learned about/been educated on techniques for effective work-related networking but have not yet put them into action.
 I have considerable experience networking for work-related reasons and do so regularly, independently, and effectively.
 I have some experience with work-related networking and am generally familiar with the behaviors and activities required to be proficient at this task. However, I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform well without supervision.
 I do not yet have experience with work-related networking, but I am interested in learning.


16a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


17.
Please select the response that best describes your negotiation skills and experience.
 I have demonstrated ability in facilitation of agreements that involve sharing or exchanging resources to promote mutual goals and interests. I can offer alternative courses of action that satisfy my requirements while persuading others to change their points of view when necessary.
 I am a highly skilled negotiator and have been involved with the resolution of difficult, complicated, and contentious issues. I have closed deals at the highest organizational levels both inside and external to my organization. I can persuade others and resolve conflicts in favor of my organizational interests without damaging future support.
 I am often involved in important organizational negotiations, called upon to build consensus among peers, subordinates, and senior management and leaders to move issues forward and improve organizational performance.
 I have rarely been asked to negotiate the resolution of differing views or positions with co-workers or associates.
 I have experience presenting and defending an issue or point of view.
 I have had success convincing others to accept and/or to follow my suggested problem solution or course of action.


17a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


COMPETENCY ID: 61 Customer Service  
INSTRUCTIONS: Works and communicates with clients and customers (e.g., any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit provides, including individuals who work in your agency or in other agencies or organizations outside the Government) to satisfy their expectations. Committed to quality services.



18.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience responding to frequently changing situations, being adaptable to expedited demands, and "thinking on your feet" to meet or exceed client expectations.
 I have a strong working knowledge of what is required for success while working in frequently changing, fast-paced environments.
 I have repeatedly delivered successful outcomes that meet or exceed client expectations.
 I have had some experience working in a rapid paced, frequently changing client servicing environment.
 I have been chosen to lead change efforts because of my flexibility, proven change management skills, and responsiveness when addressing frequently changing client needs.
 I have been acknowledged as a leader in offering creative responses to difficult and unusual client issues.
 I have not had the opportunity to demonstrate my flexibility in a work environment, but I am confident that clients/coworkers would find me easy to work with and attentive to their changing needs.
 I now serve or have served in a position that required a great deal of adaptability.
 My flexibility, adaptability, and rapid responses to changing situations and/or client requests have had positive and beneficial impacts on my organization and its client relationships.


18a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


19.
Please select the responses that best identify your level of experience acting as a formal advocate on behalf of your organization to best advance the goals, positions, and interests of the organization by using actions such as communicating important information with key industry personnel, governments, officials, and/or industry associations to find areas of common ground, assert and defend positions, and coordinate efforts.
 A. I do not yet have experience formally advocating on behalf of my organization, but I am interested in learning.
 B. I have formally advocated on behalf of my organization on more than one occasion.
 C. I am generally familiar with the activities associated with advocacy. However, I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform well without supervision.
 D. I have learned about techniques for effectively advocating on behalf of my organization, but I have not yet put them into action.
 E. I am considered an expert in formally advocating on behalf of my organization and/or I train others in performing this function.
 F. I have received official recognition for my advocacy on behalf of my organization, and I have demonstrated my capability in communicating important information with key industry personnel, governments, officials, and/or industry associations to find areas of common ground, assert and defend positions, and coordinate efforts.
 G. I have considerable experience formally advocating on behalf of my organization and do so regularly.
 H. I communicate important information with key industry or government personnel independently and effectively to assert and defend positions of my organization and find areas of common ground.


19a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


20.
Please select the response that best describes your level of experience responding to client needs.
 I have a strong working knowledge of interpreting client feedback, improving client experience, finding requested/needed information, and providing it to clients/customers promptly.
 I have some client service experience and regularly interact with and am responsive to the needs and expectations of my co-workers, providing them with timely information and service as necessary to support them and their client service needs.
 I have been chosen to lead client service efforts because of my past capability in acquiring knowledge used to meet or exceed customers’ needs, goals, and expectations.
 I am experienced in providing sound, client-focused counseling and creative, service-based solutions to customer requirements promptly. I have provided counseling that has a meaningful, positive impact on the clients’ organization.
 I have not had to provide client services directly, but my work experience has had an indirect positive impact on customers.
 I serve or have served in a position where I was routinely called upon to perform client service functions. My timeliness and understanding of client-related issues has/had a direct and beneficial impact on my organization’s client relationships.


20a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


COMPETENCY ID: 297 Teamwork 
INSTRUCTIONS: Encourages and facilitates cooperation, pride, trust, and group identity; fosters commitment and team spirit; works with others to achieve goals.




21.
Please select the item below that best describes your level of work-related cross-cultural communication and experience.
 I have deep insight into, experience with, and respect for other cultures and use that information to advance the goals and objectives of my organization. I am recognized and sought out for my expertise in being able to understand how to live with and work with people from all over the world and different cultures.
 I am constantly learning about other cultures through reading and working with people from other parts of the world. I have limited cross-cultural experience yet respect different customs and perspectives.
 I have an excellent grasp and appreciation for other cultures, societies, values, beliefs, and customs developed through routine exposure and by working with people from around the world. I correctly interpret others’ actions and perspectives, and I have excellent skills in cross-cultural rapport building.
 I have a good understanding of other societies. I have worked with people who come from different cultures, and I respectfully and effectively interact by building rapport, leveraging differences in perspective, and correctly balancing the interests of all
 I do not have personal experience with another culture different from my own but have an interest in experiencing life in other societies.


21a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


COMPETENCY ID: 159 Leadership Skills
INSTRUCTIONS: Inspires, motivates and guides others toward goal accomplishment; coaches, mentors, and challenges subordinates; adapts leadership styles to a variety of situations; models high standards of honesty, integrity, trust, openness, and respect for the individual by applying these values to daily behaviors.



22.
Please select the response that best identifies your level of experience managing work projects by coordinating and leading efforts to achieve success, establishing, and tracking milestones, and managing resources and organizational relationships to best support the project.
 I do not yet have experience managing work projects, but I am interested in learning.
 I have some experience managing work projects and I am generally familiar with the activities associated with this task. However, I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform work projects well without supervision.
 I am considered an expert in managing work projects and/or I train others in performing it. I may have received official recognition for my work related to this task and I have clearly demonstrated my capability in executing the activities associated with the performance of this task.
 I have learned about techniques for effectively managing work projects but have not yet put them into action.
 I have considerable experience managing work projects and do so regularly, independently, and effectively.


22a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


23.
Please select the response that best identifies your level of experience organizing and structuring work for effective performance and goal attainment; setting and balancing priorities; formulating plans consistent with available human, financial, and physical resources; and modifying plans or adjusting priorities given changing goals or conditions.
 I do not yet have experience organizing and structuring work for effective performance and goal attainment, but I am interested in learning.
 I have some experience organizing and structuring work for effective performance and goal attainment and am generally familiar with setting and balancing priorities; formulating plans consistent with available human, financial, and physical resources; and modifying plans or adjusting priorities given changing goals or conditions. However, I would require additional guidance, instruction, or experience to perform these duties well without supervision.
 I have learned about/been educated on techniques for effectively organizing and structuring work for effective performance and goal attainment but have not yet put them into action.
 I am proficient in organizing and structuring work for effective performance and goal attainment, and I train others in performing such functions. I may have received official recognition for my work related to setting and balancing priorities; formulating plans consistent with available human, financial, and physical resources; and modifying plans or adjusting priorities given changing goals or conditions. I have clearly demonstrated my capability in executing the activities associated with the performance of these tasks.
 I have considerable experience in organizing and structuring work for effective performance and goal attainment and perform them regularly. I set and balance priorities; formulate plans consistent with available human, financial, and physical resources; and modify plans or adjust priorities given changing goals or conditions independently and effectively.


23a.
Please indicate where this experience is located in your resume.


WARNING! USAJOBS ONLINE positions close at midnight Eastern Time (ET) on the closing date of the vacancy announcement. After midnight ET, jobs that have closed will not be available for review or application.


REMINDER! Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation, are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Submitting false information or attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for terminating you after you have been hired. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


24.
Yes, I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by me with my application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that I have truthfully and accurately represented my work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities, and education (degrees, certifications, accomplishments, etc.). I understand that the information provided is subject to investigation. I understand that misrepresenting my experience or education, or providing false, fraudulent or inaccurate information in or with my application may be grounds for not hiring me or for terminating me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).

No, I do not certify, and I understand that by responding no to this certification that I will not receive consideration for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙