Position Title
Medical Instrument Technician - EKG
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTF-12874337-26-KS Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 18, 2026 to Feb 25, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
Are you willing to accept the working conditions as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


3.
Applicants are required to undergo and successfully pass a pre-employment drug screening test and must submit to random drug testing after employment. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in employment with the Washington DC  VA Medical Center: 

Select the appropriate answer to the following question based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and/or education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Citizenship:

Citizenship of the United States. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to recruit qualified citizens in accordance with chapter 3, section A, paragraph 3g, this part.

Are you a U.S. Citizen?
 Yes
 No


2.
English Language Proficiency:

Medical Instrument Technicians must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with chapter 2, section D, paragraph 5a, this part.
 Yes
 No


GRADE REQUIREMENTS:

Definitions:
For purposes of this qualification standard the specialty areas of this occupation have been grouped into [seven] functional areas.

These are:
- Cardiovascular (Electrocardiograph Technician, Cardiac Catheterization Technician)
- Medical (Hemodialysis Technician)
- Surgical (Perfusion Technician, Anesthesia Technician)
- Neurology (Electroencephalograph Technician, Polysomnography Technician)
- Pulmonary (Pulmonary Function Technician), and
- Imaging (Diagnostic Ultrasound Technician, Echocardiograph Technician, and Vascular Technician)
- Gastroenterology (GI Technician)

Medical Instrument Technicians at GS-6 and above will have a functional assignment and reference should be made to the appropriate appendix for qualifications evaluation.

Electrocardiograph Technicians (EKG) operate instruments used to record electrocardiograms, exercise tolerance tests, 24-48 heart monitoring and scanning, and pacemaker evaluations. Certification is offered by Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI) as a Certified Cardiographic Technician (CCT). (See Appendix E)

Basic Developmental Levels:
Non-Supervisory positions at GS-6 and above. For medical instrument technician positions with functional specialty titles, see the appropriate appendix for creditable experience, KSAs, and assignment definitions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Grade Level Requirements GS-6

Electrocardiograph Technician (EKG) GS-6 Experience:
At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs:

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:
1. Ability to recognize special patient needs such as disabilities, impaired mobility, and complicating medical conditions in order to prepare and position the patient for the prescribed procedure.
2. Knowledge of the specialized equipment and accessories appropriate to Holter monitoring and ability to perform such tests.
3. Knowledge of universal precautions and sterilization techniques and ability to follow CDC guidelines in cleaning equipment.
4. Ability to monitor the patient for adverse reactions and take appropriate action.
5. Ability to operate the equipment to perform standard and routine highly specialized procedures including exercise stress testing.

Certification:
No certification is required; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have BCLS (Basic Cardiac Life Support)  certification. 

Assignment:
Medical instrument technicians (EKG) at this level receive and interpret physician's requests for diagnostic procedures and/or treatments; explain the procedure to the patient to secure the patient's confidence and cooperation; document the patient's record; independently perform standardized testing monitoring the patient for adverse reactions; and operate, calibrate, and clean and/or sterilize commonly used equipment. Assignments at this level require knowledge of standard medical terminology as well as common diseases and their specific affects.

Do you demonstrate these GS-6 requirements?
 Yes
 No


4.
Electrocardiograph Technician - EKG GS-7 Experience:

At least 1 year of experience comparable to the next lower grade (GS-6) level which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics related to the duties of the positions to be filled. This would be experience which provided knowledge of the equipment, standard tests and procedures, and typical readings including arrhythmias and abnormalities.

Do you meet the GS-7 Experience?
 Yes
 No


5.
Electrocardiograph Technician - EKG GS-7

In addition, the candidate must demonstrate the following KSAs

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities:
1. Knowledge of typical patient reactions and signs of distress including the ability to recognize, report and treat potentially lethal arrhythmias.
2. Knowledge of common equipment settings and standardized procedures plus knowledge of common errors and corrective measures.
3. Ability to modify procedures/positions to obtain the correct results with patients with complicating conditions such as amputations, Parkinson's disease, structural defects, and scar tissue.
4. Ability to act as a mentor or preceptor to lower graded technicians.
5. Ability to conduct in-service training on the EKG equipment and related instrumentation.

Certification:
No certification is required; however, it is desirable that employees at this level have BCLS (Basic Cardiac Life Support) and ACLS (Advanced Cardiac Life Support) certifications.

Assignment:
This represents the full performance level. Medical instrument technicians (EKG) at this level operate and monitor electrocardiographic equipment to perform specialized examinations and studies involving exercise stress testing, ambulatory monitoring of arrhythmias, and indirect carotid pulse tracings on chronic patients. They monitor tracings to identify arrhythmias and when gross abnormalities appear, when to repeat certain procedures, when to stop test procedures, and when to get the immediate attention of a physician. They evaluate test results to determine appropriate machine adjustments and use alternative techniques and procedures when established procedures do not accomplish acceptable results. This includes adapting equipment and accessories to yield the best results during the examination. They edit and select an appropriate sample portion of the tracing for further interpretation by the physician.

Do you meet the GS-7 KSA's?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙