Position Title
Budget Analyst
Agency
Environmental Protection Agency
Announcement Number
EPA-OIG-DE-26-13032804 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 18, 2026 to Aug 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, please select the one response that best describes how your experience or education meets the requirements for the Budget Analyst, GS-0560-09 position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience, equivalent to the GS-09 grade level in the federal service, performing at minimum 4 of the 5 following duties: 1) Monitoring and tracking resources and/or expenditures to apply funds control practices in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and procedures. 2) Entering, querying, and reconciling budgetary data in financial systems and analyzing financial data to provide recommendations to support decision-making. 3) Generating reports, narratives, briefing materials, or justifications to support budget formulation, execution, management decisions, and/or funding requests. 4) Applying mathematical and quantitative methods (e.g., prorations, percentages, ratios, and fractions) to support budgetary processes and financial planning. 5) Utilizing spreadsheet tools, including pivot table, lookup, and conditional formatting functions to compile, analyze, and present financial or budgetary data.
 I have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree; OR 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL. B or J.D., in a related field (e.g., Business Administration, Accounting, Finance Management, Economics, Public Administration). My education was obtained in an accredited college or university and demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform the duties of the position. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have the specialized experience as described in A, but less than one year; and I have at least one year of graduate education as described in B, but less than the required two years. I have computed the percentage of the requirements that I meet, and the total is at least 100%. (To compute the percentage, divide your total months of qualifying experience by 12. To compute the percentage of education, divide your semester hours of graduate education beyond the first year (total graduate semester hours minus 18) by 18. Add the percentages. The total percentage must equal at least 100 percent to qualify.) (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 My experience and/or education are not reflected in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙