Position Title
IT SPECIALIST (CUSTOMER SUPPORT)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MT-12988690-AF-26-503 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 23, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your resume should address each position's requirements, education and experience (general and specialized). Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents.


1.
Are you a current member of the Montana Air National Guard?
 I am currently a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T32 employee with the Montana Air National Guard. (Area I)
 I am currently an indefinite (Tenure 3) T32 or T5 employee or a permanent (Tenure 1 or 2) T5 employee that is also a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area II)
 I am currently a military member or Title 5 temporary (Tenure 0) employee that is a military member of the MT Air National Guard. (Area III)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, but AM willing and eligible to join. (Area IV)
 I am not currently a member of the Montana Air National Guard, NOR am I willing to join.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
GENERAL EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENT:
Must have experience, education or training that has provided a basic knowledge of data processing functions and general management principles that enabled the understanding of the stages required to automate a work process; experience in work such as computer operator or assistant, computer sales representative, program analyst, or other positions that required the use or adaptation of computer programs and systems.

AND

Must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below:
Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail.
Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.

Do you meet the above general experience requirements?

***(MUST address your experiences in detail on resume as they relate to these general experiences to be considered for this position)***
 Yes
 No


3.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE OR EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-9
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year of experience, education, or training which is equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-07) in receiving, maintaining, and issuing data storage media for computer operations. Experience in scheduling the use of computer time for program processing. Experience collecting and sequentially staging input media with associated program instructions for processing. Experience in at least one programming language. Translating detailed logical steps developed by others into language codes that computers accept where this required understanding of procedures and limitations appropriate to use of a programming language. Experience interviewing subject-matter personnel to get facts regarding work processes and synthesizing the resulting data into charts showing information flow. Experience in analysis of the interrelationship of pertinent components of the system. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment. Experience scheduling the sequence of programs to be processed by computers where alternatives had to be weighed with a view to production efficiency. (Must address these specialized experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this grade.)

OR

B) A master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Major study--computer science, information science, information systems management, mathematics, statistics, operations research, or engineering, or course work that required the development or adaptation of computer programs and systems and provided knowledge equivalent to a major in the computer field. (Copies of all relevant transcripts must be provided to qualify using education.)

Do you meet one of the options above?
 Yes, I meet the Specialized Experience requirements listed in item A.
 Yes, I meet the Education requirements listed in item B.
 No, I do not meet the requirements listed above.


4.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE OR EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GS-11
Must have one of the following:

A) 1 year of experience, education, or training which is equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-09) that approaches techniques and requirements appropriate to an assigned computer applications area or computer specialty area in an organization. Experience planning the sequence of actions necessary to accomplish the assignment where this entailed coordination with others outside the organizational unit and development of project controls. Experience that required adaptations of guidelines or precedents to meet the needs of the assignment. Experience preparing documentation on cost/benefit studies where is involved summarizing the material and organizing it in a logical fashion. (Must address these specialized experiences in detail on resume to be considered for this grade.)

OR

B) Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related. Major study--computer science, information science, information systems management, mathematics, statistics, operations research, or engineering, or course work that required the development or adaptation of computer programs and systems and provided knowledge equivalent to a major in the computer field. (Copies of all relevant transcripts must be provided to qualify using education.)

Do you meet one of the above options?
 Yes, I meet the Specialized Experience requirements listed in item A.
 Yes, I meet the Education requirements listed in item B.
 No, I do not meet the requirements listed above.


5.
Do you currently meet the rank requirement as indicated in the advertisement?
(E3/A1C - E6/TSgt)
 Yes, I currently meet the rank and military membership requirement as indicated in the advertisement.
 Yes, I am an employee with the MT Air National Guard that is willing and eligible for enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard within the required rank listed.
 No, I am over graded in military rank.
 No, I am below the rank requirements as indicated in the advertisement.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard; but I am willing and eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard in the ranks indicated.
 No, I am not a current employee or member of the Montana Air National Guard and I am not eligible for transfer/enlistment/reinstatement into the MT Air National Guard in the ranks indicated.


6.
What is your current military rank?


7.
Please certify that you have accurately and truthfully represented your level of work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and/or education when completing this questionnaire as your responses, resume and supporting documents will be reviewed for accuracy and completeness as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. Failure to agree to the statements below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 I certify that my answers are accurate and complete. I accept that if my supporting documentation does not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not wish to certify my answers. I understand that I will not be considered for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙