Position Title
Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operator
Agency
U.S. Secret Service
Announcement Number
ASD-KG-13031588-26-SS Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 12, 2026 to Aug 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and meet ALL of the following? 
Located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; and
Applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; and
Last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice.
SF-50(s), Notification of Personnel Action(s), that reflects all of the following:
Position, grade level (GS-15 or below), and duty location; and
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is "1" or "2" in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is "1" in block 34), or excepted service without time limit (Position Occupied is "2" in block 34) who is covered by a law providing both noncompetitive appointment eligibility to, and selection priority for, competitive service positions.
Any documentation from agency that shows current promotion potential; and
Latest performance appraisal including rating.
For more information, review Career Transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current United States Secret Service employee in the competitive service?

To verify eligibility, as a CURRENT Secret Service Employee you must submit your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, that reflects the following (you may need to submit more than one SF-50 to comply):
Career or Career-Conditional appointment (Tenure Code is 1 or 2 in block 24); and
Competitive service (Position Occupied is 1 in block 34); and
Highest grade held on a permanent basis (if different than the most recent SF-50); and
Time-in-grade eligibility.
Please note: Examples of appropriate Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, include promotions and with-in grade/range increases. While a General Adjustment and/or Award SF-50 may be your most recent SF-50 it typically DOES NOT show proof of Time in Grade. Thus, you may need to submit more than one SF-50 as proof of Time in Grade.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
11
12


2.
Applicants who previously received a Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP) from a federal agency should be aware that, under federal law, individuals who return to federal employment within five years of receiving a VSIP are generally required to repay the full amount of the incentive to the agency that paid it before they can be reemployed.

If you previously received a VSIP, please indicate the agency and year in which the payment was received. Please type "no" if you have not received a VSIP.



Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operator position with the United States Secret Service. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and/or experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operator at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-09 grade level in the Federal Service which includes: Assisting with the operation or maintenance of unmanned aircraft systems to support aerial surveillance or protective activities; Collecting or analyzing unmanned aircraft systems sensor data to aid in threat identification or situational awareness; Participating in the preparation of operational reports or summaries to contribute to protective planning and asset deployment.
 I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or LL.M., if related, from an accredited college or university that provided the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to perform this work. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts (official or unofficial) to support your claim).
 I have a combination of specialized experience (less than one year) and graduate education (beyond 2 years of graduate education), that when combined equals 100% of the qualification requirement. Note: Only graduate education in excess of two years (generally 36 semester hours) may be used in this calculation. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your college transcripts (official or unofficial) and your resume must explicitly indicate how you meet the experience to support your claim).
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the specialized experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of a Unmanned Aircraft Systems Operator at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal Service.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 grade level in the Federal Service which includes; Executing Unmanned Aerial Systems operations, such as threat detection, identification, tracking, and mitigation; Contributing to asset positioning or protective strategies via the development of reports; Administering or delivering training on Unmanned Aerial Systems, procedures, or policy to stakeholders.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. Failure to agree to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I verify that all my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙