Position Title
Program Specialist (Human Resources Liaison)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
346-26-KDT-IMP-12991343-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 10, 2026 to Jul 20, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Phoenix, AZ
 B. Honolulu, HI
 C. Reno, NV
 D. Albuquerque, NM
 E. Salt Lake City, UT
 F. Seatac, WA
 G. Seattle, WA


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11
12


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Area of Consideration - This vacancy is open ONLY to current, permanent employees of the Albuquerque, NM; Honolulu, HI; Phoenix, AZ, Salt Lake City, UT; Reno, NV and Seattle or SeaTac, WA Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP eligible. For purposes of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting areas of these locations are considered facility employees. Applicants may only apply to their respective Regional Office.


1.
Are you currently a permanent employee of the Albuquerque, NM; Honolulu, HI; Phoenix, AZ, Salt Lake City, UT; Reno, NV and Seattle or SeaTac, WA Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Regional Office and Veterans Affairs (VA) CTAP? For purposes of this job announcement, Fiduciary Hub bargaining unit employees in the commuting area of the locations listed are considered facility employees.
 Yes, and I will submit my most recent appointment SF-50 as defined in the Required Document section of this Job Announcement.
 No, but I am a current/former VA employee who is CTAP eligible and will submit my CTAP documentation as specified in the vacancy announcement.
 I do not meet the criteria listed above.


Applicants who are current or former Federal employees and have held a GS grade at any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you for a GS-9:
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-07 grade level or higher
 I am currently a GS-09 or higher grade
 Neither A or B applies to me


3.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you for a GS-11.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher
 I am currently a GS-11 or higher grade
 Neither A or B applies to me


4.
Please select one response below that most accurately describes you for a GS-12.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher
 I am currently a GS-12 or higher grade
 Neither A or B applies to me


This section includes questions about the basic qualifications for the grade level of this vacancy. NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.


5.
GS-09 Level: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as experience applying and providing guidance on multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Labor Relations.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:

Assist employees with advice on a variety of rules, regulations, and practices pertaining to human resources
Provide guidance and explanations of the organization's policies, procedures, and guidelines to leaders and employees
Provide advice regarding appropriate levels on personnel actions.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-07 grade level or higher as described in the job announcement.
 I have a Masters Degree. or equivalent doctoral degree OR two full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 I have a combination of specialized experience as described in "A" and MASTERS education as described in "B" which meets 100% of the total requirement for experience and/or education. (TRANSCRIPTS REQUIRED)
 My experience and/or education is not described above.


6.
GS-11 Grade Level: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience at least the next lower grade level (GS-09) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience is defined as experience applying and providing guidance on multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Labor Relations.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:

Provide advisory services to leaders and employees on a range of human resources concepts, laws, and policies.
Assist leadership in solving a range of complex problems and issues.
Participate in policy development groups or projects based on broad organizational requirements.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-09 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-11 or higher grade.
 Neither A or B applies to me


7.
GS-12 Grade Level: Applicants must have one year of specialized experience which was at the (GS-11) level and must have been held in the Federal Government. Specialized experience is defined as experience providing advisory services, quality review services, or experience drafting and approving standard operating procedures and/or other forms of regulatory guidance covering multiple fields of Human Resources rules, regulations, and procedures including Personnel Management, Recruitment and Staffing, Classification, Employee Benefits (OWCP, retirements, and insurance programs), and/or Employee and Labor Relations.

Examples of specialized experience would typically include, but are not limited to:

Provide advice and guidance in the areas of classification and staffing and recruitment.
Defending agency actions in front of a 3rd party hearing (FLRA, MSPB).
Experience as the chief negotiator in labor negotiations.
 I have held a Federal GS position within the past year (52 weeks) AND I have at least one year time-in-grade in a position at the GS-11 grade level or higher.
 I am currently a GS-12 or higher grade.
 Neither A or B applies to me.


Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.


8.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above. I understand that I will not be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙