Position Title
Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection) - Chief Ranger
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
LE-MP-26-13041827-MR-SD1 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 25, 2026 to Sep 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


3.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Promotional): 
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior Federal employee and meet the following Competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
Current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service that occupying (or previously held) a position at a lower grade level than the position being announced or lower than the advertised full performance level for this position.
(Wage System/Trade Positions) Current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service currently occupying (or previously held) a position at a pay rate that is below the advertised full performance level for this position.
To verify your eligibility, you must provide
A copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status (SF-50 box #24 - 1 or 2, box #34 - 1) showing that you are a current Department of the Interior AND if the most recent SF-50 does not show your highest grade held, then please submit a copy of an SF-50 that reflects your highest grade held on a permanent basis (No award 50's will be accepted).
A copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record (or statement why it is not available). 
Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. 

Are you a current Department of the Interior employee in the competitive service who is applying for a promotional opportunity as outlined above?
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


5.
Current Department of Interior Employee (Lateral or Downgrade):
Are you a current career/career-conditional Department of the Interior employee and meet the following Non-competitive Merit Promotion Eligibility:
 
Current Department of the Interior employee with a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service that currently holds or previously held a career or career-conditional position at the same (or higher grade level) with the same (or higher promotion potential) than the position being announced.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide a copy of your current Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) reflecting your competitive status showing that you are a current Department of the Interior employee at the same grade level (or higher) AND your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record. If you previously held a higher grade level on a permanent basis, but not currently, please provide that SF-50.  Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
My performance is at an acceptable level, and I am not currently serving under a formal performance improvement observation such as a Performance Improvement Plan (PIP) or Notice of Opportunity to Demonstrate Acceptable Performance (NODAP).
 Yes
 No
 Not Applicable


Merit Hiring Plan
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating. Please limit your resume to no more than 2 pages. If more than 2 pages are submitted, only the first 2 pages will be reviewed to determine your eligibility/qualifications. You can only submit one resume; Only the resume submitted under the "Resume" "Document Type" will be used to determine your qualifications and for rating purposes. Only one resume will be used to evaluate your qualifications. In the event you submit more than one resume, only the latest submission will be reviewed.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-12


1.
From the descriptions below, select ONE response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and/or education requirements for a Supervisory Park Ranger (Protection), GS-0025-12 position. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 Specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position. I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the federal service performing the following: 1) leading a law enforcement or investigative program or employees; 2) interpreting regulations and policy directives related to law enforcement and natural resource protection; 3) providing input to and/or evaluating law enforcement or resource protection program for short- and long-term planning of operational needs; OR 4) serving as Incident Commander or Operations Chief on all-hazard operations (e.g., emergency services, search and rescue, special security events, etc.).
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described above.


Read each question carefully and select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. Failure to respond to a question will result in an ineligible rating.


Mandatory Minimum Entry Age (Selective Factor)


2.
This position requires applicants to be at least 21 years or older at the time of application.

 I am currently at least 21 years old.
 I do NOT meet the mandatory minimum entry age requirement for this position.


Type I Law Enforcement Commission (Selective Factor)


3.
In addition to the requirements in the questions above, selectees must possess a National Park Service Type I Law Enforcement Commission or equivalent by the closing date of the announcement, which requires successful completion of an approved Law Enforcement Training Program. Please select the response below that best describes your qualifications in this area. If you do not meet the requirements of this selective factor, you will be rated ineligible for these positions. Applicants must document how they meet this requirement, as indicated below, to be considered qualified for this position.

 I currently hold, or have previously held, a National Park Service full Type I Law Enforcement Commission or equivalent within the past three years. Note: If you do not submit a copy of your Type I Law Enforcement Commission with your application package, then you MUST include your Type I Law Enforcement Commission number with expiration date within your resume.
 I do NOT possess a Type I Law Enforcement Commission.


Primary Law Enforcement Experience (Selective Factor)


4.
This is a covered secondary law enforcement position under the special retirement provisions of 5 U.S. C. 8336(c) (CSRS) and 8412(d) (FERS). In addition to the qualifying experience and/or education described above, applicants for this position must possess experience gained by substantial service in a primary law enforcement position or equivalent. Please select the response below that best describes how you meet this requirement.

 I have substantial, documented experience in a primary law enforcement position in the Federal government, or equivalent documented experience outside the Federal government.
 I do NOT meet the primary law enforcement experience requirements for this position.


NOTE regarding covered secondary law enforcement positions: Applicants may meet qualification requirements but may not be eligible for special retirement coverage. If such an applicant is selected, they will be placed in the regular retirement system. To be eligible for Secondary retirement coverage under CSRS, an employee must transfer directly (without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a primary position to a secondary position. To be eligible for Secondary retirement coverage under FERS, an employee must: 1) transfer directly (without a break in service exceeding 3 days) from a primary position to a secondary position; AND 2) complete 3 years of service in a primary rigorous position including any such service during which no FERS deductions were withheld; AND 3) must be continuously employed in a secondary position(s) since moving from a primary rigorous position, except for any break in employment from a secondary position that began with involuntary separation (not for cause). It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure this office has enough information to determine your special retirement status to ensure you do not lose benefits (normally through submission of your work history or other documentation that demonstrates work history of approved covered positions). You must let this office know if you are in a Primary position.


Firearm (Selective Factor)


5.
This position requires an employee to carry a firearm while performing duties and maintain firearm proficiency.

 Yes, I understand and agree to the firearm requirements for this position.
 No, I do NOT agree to the firearm requirements for this position.


Valid State Driver's License (Selective Factor)


6.
This position requires a current, valid state driver's license in good standing. Upon tentative selection, you will be required to submit driver's license information.

 Yes, I possess a current, valid state driver's license.
 I do NOT meet the driver's license requirements for this position.


Verification Statement


7.
Your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your ratings. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position/agency.
Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning, 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability.
Failure to agree to this statement will disqualify you from further consideration for the position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙