Position Title
Utility Systems Repairer-Operator
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
PW-8147-GOGA-26-12861262-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 13, 2026 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires the incumbent to have a California Grade 1 Water Distribution Operator license (D1), or equivalent, or be able to obtain within 1 year of entrance of duty/start date. 

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement. (You must submit a copy of your latest license with your resume.)
 Yes I possess a California Grade 1 Water Distribution Operator license (D1), or equivalent.
 No, I do not possess a California Grade 1 Water Distribution Operator license (D1), or equivalent but I will obtain one within 1 year of entrance of duty/start date.
 No, I do not meet either of the requirements stated above.


2.
This position requires the incumbent to have a California Backflow Prevention Certification, or equivalent, or be able to obtain within 1 year of my entrance of duty/start date. 

Please mark the answer below that best matches how you meet this requirement. (You must submit a copy of your latest license/certification with your resume.)
 Yes, I possess an AWWA Backflow Assembly Tester Certification, or equivalent.
 No, I do not possess an AWWA Backflow Assembly Tester Certification, or equivalent. However, I will obtain one within 1 year of my entrance of duty/start date.
 No, I do not meet either of the requirements stated above.


3.
This vacancy is a required occupancy position. If selected, the selectee will be required to live in park housing/government quarters. 

Do you acknowledge and agree to this requirement?
 Yes, I acknowledge and agree to live in park housing/government quarters if selected.
 No, I do not agree to live in park housing/government quarters if selected.


Assessment 1
Ability to do the work of a Utility Systems Repairer-Operator without more than normal supervision (Screen-Out)


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience and/or training that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. You must document your response in your resume/application.
 I have experience performing the most difficult and complex tasks as an expert with a high degree of independence. This includes installing and repairing new and existing piping systems made of PVC, copper, ductile, cast, and galvanized materials; installing, repairing, and testing electrical panels, breakers, lighting, and distribution circuits; maintaining, testing, and troubleshooting solar power distribution systems, generators, SCADA/UPS systems; maintaining, repairing, and testing complex HVAC systems; and repairing and replacing water distribution equipment such as pumps, tanks, filters, and pipelines.
 I have experience performing complex tasks with limited supervision, such as installing, repairing, and testing electrical panels, breakers, lighting, and distribution circuits, as well as maintaining and troubleshooting HVAC systems and water distribution equipment including pumps, tanks, filters, and pipelines.
 I have experience performing routine tasks independently, such as installing or repairing piping systems made of PVC, copper, ductile, cast, or galvanized materials and performing basic electrical work including panels, breakers, and lighting circuits.
 I have experience performing basic tasks under close supervision, such as assisting with simple repairs or installations.
 I have no experience performing Utility Systems Repairer-Operator tasks.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙