Position Title
Economist
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
CCCR-26-13055538-MP Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 10, 2026 to Sep 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Program

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:

• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employee

Are you a current IRS Office of Chief Counsel employee serving on one of the following types of appointments: 1) a Career or Career-Conditional appointment in the competitive service, 2) a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or 3) a Schedule A Appointment? 

Current Federal Employees - Documentation Relating to Your Federal Employment- Submit a copy of your SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, which shows your current (or most recent) grade and competitive service status. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should show a "1" or "2".)- Indicate on your application the highest permanent grade you have held; if this grade is different from your current grade, submit a copy of an additional SF-50 showing this grade.- Submit a copy of your most recent, signed, completed annual performance appraisal which includes the final rating. If it is not dated within the last 12 months or if you have not received a performance appraisal, please explain why in your application.

Current Chief Counsel Employees on an Excepted Service Veteran's Recruitment Appointment (VRA) or Schedule A appointment - If you are eligible in this category, you are required to submit an SF-50 showing current Chief Counsel Excepted Service VRA or Schedule A (Employee with Disability) appointment (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a "2").

 Yes
 No


3.
Current IRS Employee

Do you currently work on a permanent competitive service appointment with the Internal Revenue Service?

You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your appointment eligibility, by submitting a copy of your last or most recent SF-50, Notification of Personnel Action, (block 24 must be a "1" or "2" AND block 34 must be a"1").

You can check your competitive service status by viewing your latest Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, Block 34, Position Occupied. If eligible, you will see 1-Competitive Service in this block.*If you are currently working on a temporary or term appointment, or you are serving on active duty in the U.S. military service in any of the above agencies, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.*If you are currently working for a private sector company performing work related to a contract with a federal agency, you are NOT eligible for this hiring category.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 1 location(s).
 A. Birmingham, AL
 X. Phoenix, AZ
 Y. Lake Forest, CA
 Z. Los Angeles, CA
 AA. Sacramento, CA
 AB. San Diego, CA
 AC. San Francisco, CA
 AD. San Jose, CA
 AE. Thousand Oaks, CA
 AF. Denver, CO
 AG. East Hartford, CT
 AH. Washington, DC
 AI. Jacksonville, FL
 AJ. Miami, FL
 AK. Plantation, FL
 AL. Saint Petersburg, FL
 AM. Atlanta, GA
 AN. Honolulu, HI
 AO. Chicago, IL
 AP. Indianapolis, IN
 AQ. Louisville, KY
 AR. New Orleans, LA
 AS. Baltimore, MD
 AT. Boston, MA
 AU. Detroit, MI
 AV. Saint Paul, MN
 B. Kansas City, MO
 C. Saint Louis, MO
 D. Las Vegas, NV
 E. Newark, NJ
 F. Buffalo, NY
 G. New York, NY
 H. Westbury, NY
 I. Greensboro, NC
 J. Cincinnati, OH
 K. Independence, OH
 L. Oklahoma City, OK
 M. Portland, OR
 N. Philadelphia, PA
 O. Pittsburgh, PA
 P. Nashville, TN
 Q. Austin, TX
 R. Farmers Branch, TX
 S. Houston, TX
 T. Salt Lake City, UT
 U. Richmond, VA
 V. Seattle, WA
 W. Milwaukee, WI


Current/Former Federal Employees
1.
Have you held a political position within the Federal Government within five (5) years of the closing date of this announcement?
 Yes, I have held a political position within the past five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political position within the past five years.


2.
Current Chief Counsel Employees Only: What is your Employee ID number (EmplID)?


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and/or conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Employees of the Internal Revenue Service Office of Chief Counsel (IRSCC) must demonstrate the highest level of ethics and integrity, and must be in compliance with all Federal Tax requirements. Applicants being considered for employment with the IRSCC will be subject to a tax check. Your responses to the following questions will be verified; Applicants providing false information may be made ineligible and will be subject to debarment for future employment opportunities with the IRSCC. Are you willing and able to undergo a Federal Tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment?
 Yes, I am willing and able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement prior to employment.
 No, I am not willing nor able to undergo a Federal tax check to meet this requirement and no longer wish to be considered for this position.


2.
A one year probation is required, if not already completed, to assess your ability to perform the duties required unless previously completed. Are you willing to serve a one year probation period if not already previously completed?
 Yes
 No and understand I will receive no further consideration for this position.
 Not Applicable - I have served the required probationary period for this position.


3.
There is a time in grade (TIG) requirement for advancement to this position. Have you completed one year in a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-14 level? Please indicate the appropriate response below:
 Yes, I have held a position at, above, or equivalent to the GS-14 in the federal service for at least 52 weeks.
 No, I am not a current federal employee nor have I held a General Schedule position within the last 52 weeks.
 I currently occupy a position at or above the grade of the position for which I'm applying.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in an Economist position with the IRS - Office of Chief Counsel. Your resume and the responses you provide to this questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Select the one answer that best describes your education and/or experience for the basic requirement for an Economist position. (You must submit a copy of your transcripts.)

 I have successfully completed a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in Economics, that includes at least 21 semester hours in Economics, and 3 semester hours in Statistics, Accounting, or Calculus.
 I have a combination of education and experience that included courses equivalent to a major in Economics, as shown above, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the qualifications you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Economist at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal Service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service as defined in the announcement.
 My experience is not reflected in the above statement.


3.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position and understand I will receive no further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙