Position Title
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ANALYST (TITLE 5)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MO-13059210-AF-26-184 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 09, 2026 to Sep 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Choose one answer which best describes the category you fall into:
 Permanent National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Whiteman AFB, Missouri.
 Indefinite National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Whiteman AFB, Missouri.
 Temporary National Guard Title 5 employee currently working for the 131st Bomb Wing at Whiteman AFB, Missouri.
 None of the above.


Assessment 1
This questionnaire is an opportunity for you to showcase your skills and experiences. Please provide detailed and thoughtful responses to the following questions. Your answers will help us understand how your background aligns with the requirements of this role.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you possess skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately; skill applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material; skill in presenting formal training presentations and briefings; and the ability to prepare reports and presentation formats?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you possess one year of specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the GS 09 grade level that demonstrates your ability to plan, coordinate, and perform comprehensive financial management analysis, decision support and quality reviews, of base level accounting and financial management programs; prepare, analyze, interpret, present, and advise on accounting and financial data; and concurrently organizes and administers the operation of automated financial systems in support of financial management functions? The specialized experience must also demonstrate you possess an excellent understanding of the basic principles and concepts of financial business program requirements; and experiences and training that demonstrates the abilities to follow directions, to read, retain, and understand a variety of instructions, regulations, policies and procedures.

 Yes
 No


3.
Do you possess a completed undergraduate or graduate education in one of, or a combination of the following disciplines: accounting, business, finance, economics, math, statistics, industrial management, marketing, quantitative methods, or organizational management?

You must submit copies of college transcripts with the application packet
 Yes
 No


4.
In detail, explain your experience reviewing accounting and pay documents, travel vouchers, and vendor payments to ensure supporting documentation is proper and valid.



5.
In detail, explain your experience aggregating data from multiple financial and accounting systems and sources in order to directly or indirectly provide accurate and timely financial reporting.



6.
In detail, explain your experience resolving complex functional problems within the pay system for affected customers.


7.
In detail, explain your experience analyzing and measuring the effectiveness and efficiency of financial operations.


8.
In detail, explain your experience analyzing and evaluating data to conduct a variety of fiscal reconciliations, reviews, and account adjustments.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Do you certify that all of your responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate; and do you accept that if your supporting documentation does not support one or more of your responses to the questionnaire that your application may be rated lower or you may be removed from further consideration?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙