Position Title
Program Specialist
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBSU-13055547-26-JW Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 03, 2026 to Sep 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Veterans Health Administration employee?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your experience and education that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You will need to provide documentation of experience or education in your resume as proof to support your answers.


1.
FOR GS-7: Select the answer that best describes your qualifications for the Program Specialist. Please ensure your resume supports the response that you select.
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in Federal Service to qualify for the GS-07. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-05) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Evidence of specialized experience must be supported on the resume by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held. This experience includes: Knowledge of principles of management and organization, including administrative practices and procedures of organizations, such as those pertaining to areas of responsibility, changes of communication, delegations of authority, routing of correspondence. Knowledge of and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to analyze and assess programs and projects. Knowledge of the duties, priorities, attitudes, responsibilities, commitments, Policies and goals of the HRO and DHRO). Knowledge of Senior Leadership's views sufficient to enable the incumbent to perform duties such as prioritizing calendar appointments and development of material. Respond to routine inquiries concerning the VISN, program policies and interest in actions. Knowledge of the substantive programs as they relate to administrative functions. Thorough knowledge of the organizational structure of the VISN HR SSU, to facilitate administrative review and routing of correspondence. Knowledge and skill in operating personal computers, application software such as word processing. graphics, spreadsheet, electronic mail, and various office equipment. Skilled typist. Knowledge of travel requirements and documents, including a thorough knowledge of travel policies, processes, and procedures sufficient to create, review, edit, process, and trouble-shoot travel authorizations and vouchers. Knowledge of grammar, spelling, capitalization, and punctuation to prepare material in required formats. Ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing; ability to train and instruct staff in administrative procedures; ability to plan and organize work; ability to interpret and apply rules and regulations
 I have one (1) full year of graduate level education in an accredited college or university. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work of the Program Specialist. NOTE: A transcript or course listing must be submitted if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Unofficial transcripts required. Applications submitted without this information will not be considered. OR, Superior Academic Achievement.
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and experience to meet the total experience requirements for the GS-07 level as described above to meet total qualification requirements for this position. (TRANSCRIPT REQUIRED)
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


2.
FOR GS-9: Select the answer that best describes your qualifications for the Program Specialist. Please ensure your resume supports the response that you select.

 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in Federal Service to qualify for the GS-09. To be creditable, specialized experience must have been equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Evidence of specialized experience must be supported on the resume by detailed documentation of duties performed in positions held. This experience includes: guiding, assisting, establishing, monitoring and tracking the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of programs; arranging meetings and preparing reports/communications; collecting and reviewing administrative data to identify, quantify and resolve organizational problems; utilizing computer databases and registries; reviewing cost items and volume while locating inconsistencies and validating data; assigning, performing and reporting on provider audits; training new staff on specific programs, time-keeping, email, training items, personal identity/verification and computer access.
 I have a Master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university; OR, two (2) full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR, an LL.B. or J.D., if related. NOTE: A transcript or course listing must be submitted if you are basing all or part of your qualifications on education. Unofficial transcripts required. Applications submitted without this information will not be considered.
 I have a combination of graduate level education (beyond the first year) and specialized experience. Unofficial transcripts must be submitted with your application.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


3.
FOR GS-11: Select the answer that best describes your qualifications for Program Specialist, GS-11. Please make sure your resume supports your response that you select.
 I possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-09 level in Federal service, including, but not limited to Knowledge and skill in applying analytical and evaluative methods and techniques to issues or studies concerning the efficiency and effectiveness of program operations Knowledge of pertinent laws, regulations, policies and precedents which affect the use of program and related support resources in the area studied Knowledge of the major issues, program goals and objectives, work processes, and administrative operations of the organization Knowledge and technical skill in adapting analytical techniques and evaluation criteria to the measurement and improvement of program effectiveness and/or organizational productivity Skill in conducting detailed analyses of complex functions and work processes Interpersonal skills in presenting staffing recommendations and negotiating solutions to disputed recommendations.
 I possess a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree; OR 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree; OR LL.M., if related. Such education must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work. Unofficial transcripts must be submitted with your application. Applications submitted without this information will not be considered.
 I possess an equivalent combination of successfully completed graduate education and specialized experience as described above to meet total qualification requirements for this position.
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described in any of the above statements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙