Position Title
Principal
Agency
Bureau of Indian Education
Announcement Number
BIE-12949253-26-AY Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 30, 2026 to May 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is subject to the Indian Preference Act of 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5116 (reclassified from 472)), which affords employment preference to qualified Native American candidates.  Proof of eligibility, in the form of a completed Verification of Indian Preference, BIA - 4432 Form, must be provided with your application by the closing date to be granted such preference.

Are you claiming Indian Preference, and submitting your BIA-4432 Form?

Note: You must include and upload your Form BIA-4432. As outlined in the vacancy announcement, this is the ONLY Indian Preference Verification Form that will be accepted.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you willing to undergo a comprehensive background investigation which includes, but is not limited to, contact with all references, employers, co-workers, personal associates and a review of your driving record, credit history, criminal history, and military service?
 Yes
 No


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
Do you possess a valid state driver's license which you have held for at least three years preceding this application?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
WARNING STATEMENT Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for not selecting you or for dismissing you from the position following acceptance.

INSTRUCTIONS: For each item, select the appropriate answer and/or provide a response to each of the following questions. When answering, remember that your application is subject to verification by investigation. Your application documentation serves as proof to support your answer.


1.
Basic Education Qualification Requirements for Principal, CE-1710

Carefully read the following descriptions of education. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the Principal series-1710. Make sure your application package supports the response selected.
 I have a Master’s degree (or equivalent degree) with 12 graduate semester hours in school administration.
 I have completed six-year university administration program with degree from an accredited institution and a minimum of 12 graduate semester hours in school administration.
 I DO NOT have a Master’s degree or equivalent with minimum 12 graduate semester hours in school administration from an accredited institution


2.
Basic Administrator Licensure/Certification Qualification Requirements for Principal, CE-1710

This position has a qualification requirement of possessing and maintaining a valid State issued Principal (or equivalent Administrator) licensure or certification in the State where the position is located.

Emergency and provisional certificates may be considered under the conditions that the State certification authority has issued those type of licensure/certificate.

Note: Neither foreign nor DODEA certification is acceptable.

Select the one that best describes meeting this qualification requirement. Make sure your application contains the appropriate documentation to support your response.
 I have valid State-issued Principal (or equivalent Administrator) licensure/certification as identified on this Job Opportunity Announcement.
 I DO NOT have valid State-issued Principal (or equivalent Administrator) licensure/certification as identified on this Job Opportunity Announcement.


3.
Basic Experience Qualification Requirements for Principal, CE-1710

Carefully read the following descriptions of experience. Select the one that best describes your qualifications for the Principal series-1710.

The Job Opportunity Announcement specifically outlines the required # of years required for the Pay Level being advertised. Make sure your application package supports the response selected.

Per Job Category Standard #019, Qualifying Experience MUST BE in school administration, teaching, counseling, or other professional education experience. A MAXIMUM of three (3) years teaching or counseling experience is creditable toward meeting full experience requirements. Remainder of required creditable experience MUST be in administrative or other professional education experience related to the position.

(Note: For positions recruiting for Level 07 or 08, one year of successful experience at 06 or 07 level of difficulty IS REQUIRED to qualify.)
 I have the required years of experience in school administration, teaching, counseling, or other professional education experience.
 I do not have the required years of experience in school administration, teaching, counseling, or other professional education experience.


CERTIFICATION OF INFORMATION ACCURACY:

As previously explained, your responses to this questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents you submit.

Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your qualifications. Deliberate attempts to falsify information may be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from the position/agency during the probation period.

Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: 1) understand this warning; 2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy; and 3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of qualifications.

Certification of Information Accuracy - If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration from this position.


4.
. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in the application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731).

I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "NO" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


APPLICANT RESPONSIBILITY: It is the applicant's responsibility to verify that information entered, uploaded, or faxed (i.e., resume, veterans or Indian preference documentation, and assessment questions and answers) is received and is accurate.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙