Position Title
Human Resources Specialist (Recruitment & Placement)
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
CASH-13045467-26-REP Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 02, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Human Resources Specialist GS-0201-7, position with Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of education and/or experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


BASIC REQUIREMENTS:
To qualify for a Human Resources (HR) Specialist GS-0201 position, candidates must meet the following basic requirement(s) as described in one of the following methods:
Method 1: One year of HR specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 level of the Federal Government or higher (Such experience may be gained in administrative, professional, technical, or other responsible work position in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector) positions in the public (i.e., Government or military) or private sector. OR
Method 2: Successful completion of bachelor's degree (or higher). OR
Method 3:A combination of six months of general administrative, professional, or technical work experience, equivalent to at least the GS-4 level of the Federal Government AND one (1) of the below four training areas:
Successful completion of at least 12 credit hours of college-level course work related to business, HR, psychology, organizational development, or other related coursework.
Successful completion of at least four formal training courses in HR.
Successful completion of a formal certificate program related to HR, psychology, organizational development, or other relatable subject area.
Current professional HR certification through a nationally recognized entity such as the Society of HR Management (SHRM). OR
GRANDFATHERING PROVISION. HR Specialists, GS-0201, employed in VA on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including the basic requirements of the occupation. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements required in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it, the following provisions apply:
a. HR Specialists who are grandfathered into the GS-0201 occupational series may be reassigned, promoted up to and including the full performance level of a career ladder, promoted to a higher grade or changed to a lower grade within the occupation.
b. HR Specialists who are grandfathered into the GS-0201 occupational series can be placed in a lead, supervisory or managerial position through an appropriate position change without meeting the basic requirements required in this standard but must meet the grade level requirements.
c. HR Specialists who are appointed on a temporary basis prior to the effective date of this qualification standard may not be extended or reappointed on a temporary or permanent basis until they fully meet the basic requirements of this standard.
d. HR Specialists serving on an appointment that leads to noncompetitive conversion to the competitive service may be extended on that appointment or converted to the competitive service without meeting the basic requirements of this standard, but they must meet the grade level requirements.
e. HR Specialists who are grandfathered under this provision that leave the occupation lose protected status and must meet the full VA qualification standard requirements in effect at the time of reentry to the occupation.


1.
Do you possess the Basic Requirements required for this position?
 Yes
 No


SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE/MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENT: In addition to the above basic requirement applicants must meet the below specialized experience requirements.

GS-7 Grade Level:
Specialized Experience: You must have one year of Specialized Experience equivalent to the GS-5 level. Specialized Experience is defined as:
Experience researching, analyzing and applying policies, regulations and standard procedures to provide internal and external customer support.
Experience using automated recordkeeping systems to research and resolve issues or provide management support.
Experience in researching and interpreting human resources laws and regulations in order to recommend solutions to problems.
OR
Education Substitution: To qualify at the GS-7 level based on education you must have: One full year of graduate-level education. Graduate-level education must demonstrate the competencies necessary to do the work of the position; OR A Bachelor's degree with Superior Academic Achievement (3.0 GPA or higher). Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) is based on 1) class standing, 2) grade point average or 3) honor society membership. For more information on calculating SAA please visit www.opm.gov.


2.
Do you posess the required specialized experience and/or education requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


TIME-IN-GRADE REQUIREMENT: Applicants who are current Federal employees and have held a GS grade any time in the past 52 weeks must also meet time-in-grade requirements.
For a GS-7 position you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-5 level.


3.
Do you posess the time in grade requirements for this position?
 Yes, I have held a GS-5 position or higher
 No, I have not held a GS-5 position or higher


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙