Position Title
Program Analyst
Agency
Missile Defense Agency
Announcement Number
MDA-26-12831876-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, November 18, 2025 to Monday, November 24, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of specialized experience or education.
 I have one year of specialized experience at the next lower grade (NH-01/GS-04) or equivalent in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector). I meet 2 of the 3 statements in order to be qualified. Creditable specialized experience includes: Experience providing succinct travel instruction and guidance to assist travelers, reviewers, and System entry agents so they can effectively implement, maintain and oversee their authorizations and vouchers, in an automated system such as Defense Travel System (DTS); Experience researching travel/transportation regulations with respect to travel procedures, restrictions and allowances from regulations, or policies such as Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Department of Defense Federal Management Regulations (DoDF- MR), and Federal Travel Regulations (FTR); Experience utilizing the programs like Citibank CitiManager to assist travelers with inquiries reference their government travel charge cards. Experience must be reflected in your resume. Education may be substituted for experience at the NH-02 level.
 Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree that included a major field of study or specific course requirements generally as stated in paragraph A in the individual occupational requirements. Where specific course requirements are not indicated in paragraph A, the number of semester hours required to constitute a major field of study is the amount specified by the college or university attended. If this number cannot be obtained, 24 semester hours will be considered as equivalent to a major field of study. The nature and quality of this required course work must have been such that it would serve as a prerequisite for more advanced study in the field or subject-matter area. Related course work generally refers to courses that may be accepted as part of the program major. Please see the Clerical and Administrative Support Positions section in the qualification standard (https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/classification-qualifications/general-schedule-qualification-standards/#url=Group-Standards)
 I have a combination of experience and education listed in A. and B.
 I do not possess the required experience and/or education as listed above to qualify for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙