Position Title
Recreation Fee Technician (Seasonal)
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
SO-1544-PIRO-26-13026267-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 07, 2026 to Aug 14, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127].

This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?

You must provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident prior to the closing date.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


2.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Field Unit Local Hiring Authority – Residency
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the locations below to be considered for Field Local Hiring. If you select yes to any of these locations listed, you will be required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation. Instructions


1.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. Review the location(s) below to be considered for Field Local Hiring.

Field Unit Local (FUL) Hiring is defined as the following counties around the job announcement location (1505 Sand Point Road, Munising, MI 49862)Location(s): Alger, Marquette, Delta, Schoolcraft, Luce

If you select yes to any of the locations listed above, you are required to provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident. Permanent Residency Address provided at time of application must be the same/match during time of background check initiation.

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit(s) being advertised?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the FUL Recreation Fee Technician, GS-0503-05 position.


BASIC EXPERIENCE AND EDUCATION SECTION: THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT ALL RESPONSES. IF NOT, YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED AND/OR YOU WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED.


Minimum Qualification Requirements for Recreation Fee Technician GS-0503-05


1.
Select the statement that best describes the education and/or experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform Recreation Fee Clerk work at the GS-05 level or equivalent. Read all responses before making your selection. If you leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I possess 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level in the Federal service. Specialized experience demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of Recreation Fee Technician, GS-0503-05. Examples of specialized experience include: providing information or assistance to the public in a business or recreation setting; leading employees; distribute workload among employees; provide on the job training/mentoring/coaching to employees; Experience also includes handling, tracking, or depositing monies; using software programs to maintain fee and stock data; resolving issues that arise in the remittance process and assisting staff with fee issues; and using tools or equipment (e.g., cash registers, calculators, etc.) to make sales transactions.
 I possess 4 years of education above high school (120 semester hours or 180 quarter hours) from an accredited college or university. One full year of academic study is 30 semester hours. (NOTE: You must submit a copy of your transcript or a complete list of college courses taken that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information as described, your application will be rated as not qualified. A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected).
 I have NOT completed 1 full year of specialized experience as described in A above or the 4 years of education as indicated in B above, but I possess an equivalent combination of education and experience. NOTE: only education in excess of the first 60 semester hours (i.e., beyond the second year) is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. One full academic year of study (30 semester hours) beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. For example, 6 months of the specialized experience described in A above (50% of the experience requirement) and 1 academic year of study beyond the second year from an accredited institution (50% of the qualifying education), equals 100% of the total requirement. (You MUST submit a copy of your transcripts indicating the number of credit hours and courses in order to qualify based on a combination of experience and education).
 I do not meet or exceed any of the above statements.


Verification Statement


2.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙