Position Title
IT Specialist (Policy and Planning)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Information and Technology
Announcement Number
IMP-CCS-12789477-25-KG-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 26, 2025 to Aug 28, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position you will be separated from; AND,
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, 
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences

Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your responses are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or eligibility as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


CTAP Eligibility:


1.
Are you a current or former VA employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position equivalent to or below the grade of the position being advertised?

Note: To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Basic Requirement (IOR): Carefully read the following and select ONE statement below that best describes how your experience meets the basic requirements for an IT Specialist GS-2210-14. For this position, individuals must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below. The employing agency is responsible for identifying the specific level of proficiency required for each competency at each grade level based on the requirements of the position being filled. - Attention to Detail - Is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attending to detail. - Customer Service - Works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services. - Oral Communication - Expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately. - Problem Solving - Identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgment to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
NOTE: The basic requirements MUST be substantiated in your resume. Failure to provide the required information will render your application ineligible for consideration. Read all responses before making your selection.


2.
Do you possess the Individual Occupational Requirement as described above?

 Yes, I have the experience described above and it is clearly demonstrated within my resume.
 No, my experience is not described above. AND


Specialized Experience: You must possess one year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-13 level.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes your experience.

 I have at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 in Federal service. Specialized experience for this position is defined as: experience in developing policy and strategic plans to drive toward organization goals and program effectiveness for large enterprise-class IT infrastructure systems; applying advanced information technology principles, standards, concepts, methods, and processes for large enterprise-scale IT infrastructure programs; experience authoring executive level communications of various types for decision-making and accountability with internal and external audiences.
 I do not meet the above requirements.


Assessment 2
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience is subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
Which of the following best describes your experience with enterprise-level Unified Communications (UC) solutions (e.g., telephony, contact center, video/web conferencing)?
 I’ve supported small UC systems or components at an enterprise site
 I’ve led planning, implementation, or lifecycle management of enterprise-wide UC solutions
 I have used UC tools as an end user or technician
 I have no direct experience with enterprise UC systems


2.
Which best describes your experience aligning UC capabilities with cybersecurity requirements such as FISMA or VA Handbook 6500?
 I have implemented security controls under guidance
 I have reviewed security documentation but did not contribute to planning
 I have led or developed security-compliant strategies for UC systems
 I am unfamiliar with FISMA or cybersecurity practices


3.
Which best describes your ability to evaluate and improve UC performance using service-level or operational metrics?
 I have used predefined metrics to report on system performance
 I have reviewed system health metrics during outages
 I have not worked with performance metrics
 I’ve developed, tracked, and used custom UC performance metrics to improve service delivery


4.
What best describes your experience with cross-functional collaboration for enterprise-level UC initiatives?
 I’ve led coordination with multiple business units or agencies on UC initiatives
 I have worked across departments to coordinate or execute UC projects
 I have supported UC tasks under direction from a project lead
 I have worked independently or in a small team


5.
How would you describe your experience developing policy, SOPs, or governance for IT or UC systems?
 A. I have helped write or revise local policy or SOPs
 B. I’ve led or authored enterprise-wide IT/UC policy and governance documentation
 C. I have followed established SOPs for UC/IT systems
 D. I have not contributed to policies or SOPs


6.
Which best describes your experience leading or managing complex UC projects or programs?
 I’ve led multiple, large-scale UC projects with cross-functional teams and strategic impact
 I have contributed to UC projects under a team lead
 I have not led or managed UC projects
 I have managed components of a UC project or led small implementations


7.
Which best describes your experience with Product Line Management (PLM) or developing roadmaps for UC systems?
 I’ve created and maintained product line roadmaps and lifecycle strategies for UC systems
 I have seen product roadmaps or been briefed on PLM concepts
 I have no experience with PLM or roadmaps
 I have contributed input for product planning or roadmap development


8.
Which best reflects your experience in delivering briefings or reports to senior IT leadership or stakeholders?

 I’ve created internal status updates or documentation [3] B I’ve delivered technical briefings and executive decision materials to senior IT or agency leadership
 I’ve delivered technical briefings and executive decision materials to senior IT or agency leadership
 I’ve participated in preparing presentations for senior leaders
 I’ve not prepared briefings or reports


9.
What best describes your involvement in gathering and analyzing UC or IT service feedback for continuous improvement?
 I have not worked with service feedback
 I’ve led efforts to design, collect, analyze, and act on customer satisfaction data for UC/IT services
 I have analyzed service data or escalations to suggest improvements
 I have seen customer satisfaction surveys or service metrics


10.
What best describes your understanding of IT architectural concepts and infrastructure for UC systems?
 I’ve designed or led implementation of integrated UC architectures aligned to enterprise business goals
 I do not have experience with UC infrastructure or architecture
 I have worked on implementing or maintaining parts of UC infrastructure
 I have a basic understanding of how telephony or video systems work


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙