Position Title
Credit Union Examiner
Agency
National Credit Union Administration
Announcement Number
CUE-RG-1180-12943373-26 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 24, 2026 to May 07, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Pathways - Recent Grad
Are you a recent graduate who has, within the previous two years, completed a qualifying Associates, Bachelors, Masters, Doctorate, professional, vocational or technical degree or certificate program? Note: Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply.
NOTE: Applicants who have not yet graduated, but will graduate by the date specified in the vacancy announcement, are also eligible to apply.

For more information, review USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources. USAJOBS Student and Recent Graduate resources

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of service which includes character of service.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. Denver, CO
 B. Washington, DC
 C. Gary, IN
 D. Indianapolis, IN
 E. South Bend, IN
 F. Kansas City, KS
 G. Boston, MA
 H. Minneapolis, MN
 I. Saint Paul, MN
 J. Kansas City, MO
 K. Omaha, NE
 L. Charlotte, NC
 M. Cleveland, OH
 N. Columbus, OH
 O. Columbia, SC
 P. Rapid City, SD


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9


3.
Are you a NCUA employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
If yes, please list the title, agency, and dates of this appointment below. Please note you will be required to meet OPM Approval of your appointment if selected.
If no, please type N/A in the box below.


5.
Would you like to opt-in to be considered for other positions within the NCUA that require similar qualifications and are in the same series and at the same grade level of this position?

PLEASE NOTE: Opting-in does not automatically guarantee you will be considered for future vacancies. You should always apply to every vacancy announcement for which you wish to be considered.
 Yes
 No


6.
Former NCUA Employee
Please select "yes" as your response in the box below if you have been employed as a Federal Government employee at the NCUA in the past; otherwise please select "no" as your response.
Note: If you were employed as a contractor at the NCUA, please select "no" as your response below.
 Yes
 No


7.
To assist us in our outreach efforts in the future, please tell us how you heard about this job. Please choose the best option available.
 A recruiter from NCUA contacted me via Linkedin
 A recruiter from NCUA contacted me via my college career center or via Handshake
 I saw the position advertised on LinkedIn
 I saw the position advertised on my university career center page or on Handshake
 I saw the position advertised on Indeed
 I saw the position advertised on a different social media website (e.g. Facebook, Twitter)
 I heard about the advertisement/position at a recruitment event (job fair, meetup, etc.)
 I heard about the position from a current/former NCUA employee
 I found this position advertised directly on my state’s employment website
 A recruiter from NCUA contacted me via USAJobs
 I found this position advertised directly on the USAJOBS website
 Other, not listed


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Degree Completion Question
1.
If you are qualifying based on education listed in the "Qualifications" section of the vacancy announcement, but have not completed your degree yet, please list the date of anticipated completion (must be completed by June 30, 2026).


Assessment 1
1.
Select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the Pathways program requirements for this position.

 I am a recent graduate who completed, with the previous two years (or will complete by the date specified in the "Qualifications" section of the vacancy announcement), a qualifying degree from a qualifying educational institution. Qualifying education includes recent graduates who have completed qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.
 I am a veteran who was unable to apply within two years of receiving my degree from a qualifying educational institution due to military service obligation, but I am applying within six years since the completion of my degree. Qualifying education includes recent graduates who have completed qualifying associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.
 I do not meet the Pathways program requirements for this position described in the above statements.


2.
Select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the qualification requirements for this position at the CU-07 grade level.
 I have completed a full 4-year course of study leading to a Bachelor of Science or higher degree in Economics, or a bachelor's or higher degree in Accounting, Business, Business Administration, Finance, Marketing, or other directly related business field. This education must have included 6 Semester Hours of coursework in Accounting (or equivalent courses) and 3 Semester Hours of coursework in Introductory Auditing (or an equivalent course) for a total of 9 Semester Hours that provided instruction in the following: Basic accounting concepts and theories and the essentials of the accounting process. For example, income determination and financial position; a fundamental understanding of the general ledger and subsidiary ledgers; evaluation of adjusting, closing and correcting entries; analysis of financial statements and bank statement reconciliation; understanding of accrual and cash methods; awareness of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; AND External financial reporting with emphasis on balance sheet valuations and their relationship to income determination; AND Principles of finance and their application to typical financial problems of business enterprises such as the measurement and disclosure problem associated with cash, receivables, fixed assets, and intangibles. Special emphasis on financial analysis, management of working capital, cost of capital, capital budgeting, long-term financing, dividend policy, and internal financing; Fundamental auditing concepts such as, internal controls, separation of duties, independence of judgment, and verification of accounts; awareness of Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. In addition to the above degree/coursework requirement, must also meet ONE of the following which indicates Superior Academic Achievement: A) Class Standing: Upper third of the graduating class of the college, university, or major subdivision, such as College of Liberal Arts or the School of Business Administration, based on the completed courses. B) Grand Point Average: A grade point average of (a) 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on the official transcript or as computed based on four years of education, or computed based on courses completed during the final two years of the curriculum; or (b) 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in the major field or the required courses in the major field completed during the final two years of the curriculum. Grand point averages will be rounded to one decimal place. For example, 2.95 = 3.0. C) Election to Membership in a National Scholastic Honor Society: Applicants may be considered eligible based on membership in one of the national scholastics honor societies. Freshman scholastics honor societies cannot be used to meet the requirements of this position. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I have the education as stated in response A above, BUT do not have 3 Semester Hours of coursework in Introductory Auditing (or equivalent course) that provided instruction as outlined in "D" above. I meet one of the Superior Academic Achievement provisions as defined in response A. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I have completed one full year of graduate education in an accredited college or university in accounting, business, business administration (MBA program), finance, marketing, economics or other directly related business field. One full year of graduate education is considered to be 18 Semester Hours or 27 Quarter Hours or the number of units the school you attended considered equal to one full year. This education must have included or been supplemented by 6 Semester Hours in Accounting (or equivalent courses) and 3 Semester Hours in Introductory Auditing (or an equivalent course) for a total of 9 Semester Hours. These courses may have been at the graduate or undergraduate level and must have included coursework that provided instruction as indicated in "A" through "D" in response A above. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I have the education as stated in response C above, BUT do not have 3 Semester Hours of coursework in Introductory Auditing (or equivalent course) that provided instruction as outlined in "D" in response A above. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I have at least one full year of specialized experience (equivalent to the CU-5 level) that equipped me with the competencies (knowledge, skills, abilities) to perform credit union examining work. This experience must have included preparing or analyzing financial statements and posting and/or balancing general ledger accounts in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and auditing work involved with examination and appraisal of financial records or statements for completeness and internal accuracy in accordance with Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. Examples of qualifying experience include: Responsible work at a financial institution that required analyzing financial statements or analyzing and recommending action on loan applications; Examination or audit of a credit union or a financial institution; Responsible accounting or auditing work involved with examination and appraisal of financial records or statements for completeness and internal accuracy.
 I have a combination of education and experience as described in the responses above. To combination undergraduate education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned and divide by 120 semester hours or equivalent. To combine graduate education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 My experience and/or education is not described in any of the responses listed above.


3.
Select one statement from the choices below to show how you meet the qualification requirements for this position at the CU-09 grade level.

 I have completed two full academic years of progressively higher level graduate education, or a master's degree in an accredited college or university in fields such as accounting, business, business administration (MBA), finance, marketing, economics or other directly related academic field. This education must have included or been supplemented by 6 Semester Hours in Accounting (or equivalent courses) and 3 Semester Hours of coursework in Introductory Auditing (or an equivalent course) for a total of 9 Semester Hours that provided instruction in the following: A. Basic accounting concepts and theories and the essentials of the accounting process. For example, income determination and financial position; a fundamental understanding of the general ledger and subsidiary ledgers; evaluation of adjusting, closing and correcting entries; analysis of financial statements and bank statement reconciliation; understanding of accrual and cash methods; awareness of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles; AND B. External financial reporting with emphasis on balance sheet valuations and their relationship to income determination; AND C. Principles of finance and their application to typical financial problems of business enterprises such as the measurement and disclosure problem associated with cash, receivables, fixed assets, and intangibles. Special emphasis on financial analysis, management of working capital, cost of capital, capital budgeting, long-term financing, dividend policy, and internal financing; AND D. Fundamental auditing concepts such as, internal controls, separation of duties, independence of judgment, and verification of accounts; awareness of Generally Accepted Auditing Standards. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I have the graduate education as stated in response A above, BUT do not have 3 Semester Hours of coursework in Introductory Auditing (or equivalent course) that provided instruction as outlined in "D" above. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I have one year of specialized experience (equivalent to the CU-07 level) that required a thorough knowledge and the application of accounting and auditing principles and practices and which equipped me with the particular competencies (knowledge, skills, abilities) to perform credit union examining work. This experience must have included assignments involved in the examination and auditing of credit unions or financial institutions through detailed examinations of accounting documents to verify accuracy of computations and to ascertain that all transactions are properly supported and are in accordance with pertinent laws and regulations. Examples of qualifying experience in planning, conducting and completing examinations and audits of financial institutions include assisting in: Analyzing current and potential financial condition to determine financial soundness and level of risk; Appraising quality of management, assuring compliance with law and regulation, and determining level of risk; identifying; determining causes, and evaluating areas of concern, risks, inefficiencies, and violations of law and regulation; resolving conflicts, making recommendations for correcting areas of concern, and developing a plan of action to control or reduce risks and prevent significant losses such as modifying the accounting systems, revising underwriting standards, and improving management information systems, reporting systems, and internal controls.
 I have a combination of graduate education (response A or B above) and experience (response C). To combine graduate education and experience, first take the number of semester hours or equivalent earned towards a graduate degree, in excess of 18 semester hours, and divide by 18 semester hours or equivalent. Then, take the number of months experience and divide by 12 months. Add the percentages together. The total must equal at least 100 percent to qualify. (SUBMIT TRANSCRIPTS)
 I am a Certified Public Accountant, obtained through written examination in a state, territory, or the District of Columbia. (SUBMIT CPA DOCUMENTATION)
 My experience, education, and/or certification is not described in any of the responses listed above.


4.
I certify, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand, if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled; I may be denied an appointment; or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand, any information I give may be investigated. I understand, I will not be considered for employment if I do not respond "Yes" to this certification item.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙