Position Title
General Engineer
Agency
Executive Director, Office of Acquisition, Logistics and Construction
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12974006-26-LBK Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 08, 2026 to Jun 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a federal agency other than the Department of Veterans Affairs?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



2.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your background and experience that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the assessment, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task.


1.
To qualify for this position, you must meet the individual occupational requirements for General Engineering Series, 0801.

How do you meet the individual occupational requirements for this position? Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your education and/or experience that demonstrates you meeting the basic requirement for the position. Note: Your resume/application must support the response that you select.
 I have obtained an engineering degree. Note: To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor’s degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics. Note: Transcripts must be submitted with your application.
 I have a combination of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. Note: The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following: 1. Professional registration or licensure -- Current registration as an Engineer Intern (EI), Engineer in Training (EIT)1 , or licensure as a Professional Engineer (PE) by any State, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico. Absent other means of qualifying under this standard, those applicants who achieved such registration by means other than written test (e.g., State grandfather or eminence provisions) are eligible only for positions that are within or closely related to the specialty field of their registration. For example, an applicant who attains registration through a State Board's eminence provision as a manufacturing engineer typically would be rated eligible only for manufacturing engineering positions. 2. Written Test -- Evidence of having successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering (FE)2 examination or any other written test required for professional registration by an engineering licensure board in the various States, the District of Columbia, Guam, and Puerto Rico. 3. Specified academic courses -- Successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and that included the courses specified in the basic requirements under paragraph A. The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of an engineering program. 4. Related curriculum -- Successful completion of a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in an appropriate scientific field, e.g., engineering technology, physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology, may be accepted in lieu of a bachelor’s degree in engineering, provided the applicant has had at least 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance. Ordinarily there should be either an established plan of intensive training to develop professional engineering competence, or several years of prior professional engineering-type experience, e.g., in interdisciplinary positions. (The above examples of related curricula are not all inclusive.)
 I do not possess the required education or experience to meet the basic requirements for this position


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


2.
Do you possess one (1) year of specialized experience (equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the federal service)? Note: GS-13 grade level specialized experience is experience that equipped the applicant with the particular knowledge, skills and abilities (KSA's) and other characteristics to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled, in the normal line of progression for the occupation in the organization. Specialized experience includes: 
evaluating the value and applicability of new or alternative project technologies, strategies, trends, or applications based on program and mission objectives with unusual demands or major constraints (e.g., funding, labor, materials, and scheduling);
providing expert technical advice to senior acquisition colleagues and/or agency officials responsible for technical systems requirements of hundred-million-dollar projects resolving unique or novel problems, conditions, or issues (i.e., interoperability, reliability, maintainability, and configuration integrity) of acquisition functionality; or
exercising judgment and ingenuity in assessing and executing technical strategies and actions to affirm the integrity, economy, quality, and effectiveness of information technology programs.
Do you meet the specialized experience requirement as stated above?
 Yes
 No


3.
RESUME REMINDER - Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week). If a military or civilian federal employee, you must include your rank and/or grade.

Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.

Please acknowledge by typing, "I acknowledge" in the free text field.

Note: You response is limited to 15 characters.


Assessment 2
Select the best answer for each question based on your job knowledge and experience. There is only one correct answer per question. Provide an answer to every question.


1.
In Agile project management, what is the purpose of a "Sprint Review" used for?
 To review team member performance
 To review and demonstrate completed work
 To allocate resources for the next sprint
 To prepare the project budget


2.
What is a Project Charter?
 A document that officially starts a project and outlines scope, objectives, and participants
 A list of all project deliverables
 A project budget
 A detailed time schedule for the project


3.
Which of the following best describes the difference between a Performance Work Statement (PWS) and a Statement of Work (SOW)?
 A SOW describes the method of performing work, while a PWS defines the results or outcomes expected.
 A PWS includes detailed project timelines, while a SOW focuses on project costs.
 A PWS is used for internal project planning, while a SOW is used to communicate with stakeholders.
 A SOW provides high-level project objectives, while a PWS provides specific project goals and milestones.


4.
Which technique is commonly used to manage risks in a project?
 Stakeholder analysis
 SWOT analysis
 Risk Register
 Gantt chart


5.
What is the purpose of using a Requirements Traceability Matrix (RTM) in project management?
 To allocate project resources
 To track changes in project schedules
 To ensure all project requirements are met and linked to their origins
 To develop a project budget


6.
Which technique is commonly used to gather requirements from stakeholders in a project?
 Brainstorming sessions
 Regression testing
 Critical path analysis
 Earned value management


7.
What is a key benefit of involving stakeholders early in the requirement-gathering process?
 It reduces the overall project budget
 It ensures that project resources are allocated efficiently
 It helps in understanding their needs and expectations, leading to more accurate and complete requirements
 It minimizes the need for future project updates


8.
FEDRAMP is a program that provides a standardized approach to what?
 Systems engineering
 Security for cloud products/services
 Software development
 Manufacturing and tooling


9.
In the context of cloud computing, what does "SaaS" stand for?
 Software as a Service
 Security as a Service
 Solution as a Service
 Storage as a Service


10.
What is Robotic Process Automation (RPA) primarily used for?
 To increase physical agility in robots
 To automate repetitive and rule-based tasks in business processes
 To detect and prevent cybersecurity threats
 To develop advanced machine learning algorithms


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙