Position Title
Medical Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBFF-12969573-26-AMC-OCA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 22, 2026 to Aug 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
Birmingham, AL
Montgomery, AL
Tuscaloosa, AL
Tuskegee, AL
Anchorage, AK
Phoenix, AZ
Prescott, AZ
Tucson, AZ
Fayetteville, AR
Little Rock, AR
North Little Rock, AR
Fresno, CA
Livermore, CA
Loma Linda, CA
Long Beach, CA
Los Angeles, CA
Mather, CA
Menlo Park, CA
Palo Alto, CA
San Diego, CA
San Francisco, CA
Vallejo, CA
Aurora, CO
Denver, CO
Glendale, CO
Grand Junction, CO
Loveland, CO
Newington, CT
West Haven, CT
Wilmington, DE
District of Columbia, DC
Bay Pines, FL
Gainesville, FL
Lake City, FL
Miami, FL
Orlando, FL
Saint Petersburg, FL
Tampa, FL
West Palm Beach, FL
Atlanta, GA
Augusta, GA
Decatur, GA
Dublin, GA
Duluth, GA
Honolulu, HI
Boise, ID
Chicago, IL
Danville, IL
Hines, IL
Marion, IL
North Chicago, IL
Westchester, IL
Fort Wayne, IN
Indianapolis, IN
Marion, IN
Des Moines, IA
Iowa City, IA
Leavenworth, KS
Topeka, KS
Wichita, KS
Fort Thomas, KY
Lexington, KY
Louisville, KY
Alexandria, LA
New Orleans, LA
Pineville, LA
Shreveport, LA
Augusta, ME
Togus, ME
Baltimore, MD
Linthicum, MD
Perry Point, MD
Bedford, MA
Boston, MA
Brockton, MA
Jamaica Plain, MA
Leeds, MA
West Roxbury, MA
Ann Arbor, MI
Battle Creek, MI
Detroit, MI
Iron Mountain, MI
Saginaw, MI
Eagan, MN
Minneapolis, MN
Saint Cloud, MN
Biloxi, MS
Jackson, MS
Ridgeland, MS
Columbia, MO
Kansas City, MO
Poplar Bluff, MO
Saint Louis, MO
Fort Harrison, MT
Miles City, MT
Grand Island, NE
Lincoln, NE
Omaha, NE
North Las Vegas, NV
Reno, NV
Manchester, NH
East Orange, NJ
Lyons, NJ
Albuquerque, NM
Albany, NY
Batavia, NY
Bath, NY
Bronx, NY
Brooklyn, NY
Buffalo, NY
Canandaigua, NY
Montrose, NY
New York, NY
Northport, NY
Queens, NY
Syracuse, NY
Wappingers Falls, NY
Asheville, NC
Charlotte, NC
Durham, NC
Fayetteville, NC
Kernersville, NC
Salisbury, NC
Fargo, ND
Chillicothe, OH
Cincinnati, OH
Cleveland, OH
Columbus, OH
Dayton, OH
Muskogee, OK
Oklahoma City, OK
Portland, OR
Roseburg, OR
White City, OR
Altoona, PA
Butler, PA
Coatesville, PA
Erie, PA
Lebanon, PA
Philadelphia, PA
Pittsburgh, PA
Wilkes Barre, PA
San Juan, PR
Providence, RI
Charleston, SC
Columbia, SC
Fort Meade, SD
Hot Springs, SD
Sioux Falls, SD
Memphis, TN
Mountain Home, TN
Murfreesboro, TN
Nashville, TN
Amarillo, TX
Arlington, TX
Big Spring, TX
Bonham, TX
Dallas, TX
El Paso County, TX
Harlingen, TX
Houston, TX
Kerrville, TX
San Antonio, TX
Temple, TX
Waco, TX
Salt Lake City, UT
White River Junction, VT
Hampton, VA
Richmond, VA
Salem, VA
Lakewood, WA
Seattle, WA
Spokane, WA
Tacoma, WA
Vancouver, WA
Walla Walla, WA
Beckley, WV
Clarksburg, WV
Huntington, WV
Martinsburg, WV
Madison, WI
Milwaukee, WI
Tomah, WI
Cheyenne, WY
Sheridan, WY
Location Negotiable After Selection, United States


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
INSTRUCTIONS: BASIC REQUIREMENTS: The following section is used to determine if you meet the basic requirements for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and your resume must provide specific job duties related to the experience required, month/year timeframes, and hours worked per week to qualify.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Medical Support Assistants (MSA) must be proficient in spoken and written English in accordance with 38 U.S.C 7403(f). Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Please select the appropriate answer that best describes how you meet the basic requirement for this position series.
 I possess a high school diploma or transcript (including homeschooling), General Education Development equivalency certificate, or proficiency certificate from a State or territorial-level Board or Department of Education, or post-high school education.
 I do not have one of the education levels listed above, but you were in the Medical Support Assistant occupation (GS-0679) on a permanent appointment with the Department of Veterans Affairs as of February 5, 2026, meeting all qualification requirements as part of the grandfathering provision
 I do not possess the basic requirement required to qualify for the position.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS: In addition to meeting the basic requirements of the occupation, you must also meet grade requirements in order to qualify for a higher-grade level position.


3.
GS-05: Do you possess either A) Experience: One year of creditable experience equivalent to the next lower grade OR B) Education. Two years of education above high school. AND demonstrate all of the following Knowledge, Skills and Abilities (KSAs) to meet the GS-05 grade level?

1) Ability to operate computerized programs and systems in order to enter, modify, and retrieve sensitive medical and patient identifying information (PII) into or from electronic health records, scheduling systems, and/or reports.
2) Advanced knowledge of medical terminology specific to understand medical diagnosis and procedures sufficient to communicate clinical staff instructions to patients.
3) Ability to schedule medical appointments in a clinical setting.
4) Ability to work independently in the accomplishment of a wide variety of duties performing patient support work.
5) Ability to communicate effectively and professionally in person, electronically, and/or by telephone, with internal and external customers.
6) Skill in customer service with the ability to identify customer concerns, and refer to the appropriate staff, as necessary, to ensure a satisfactory resolution.
 I possess at least one year of experience equivalent to the GS-04 grade level and meet the above KSAs. Resume must include hours per week for work experience credit.
 I possess two years above high school and meet the above KSAs. Transcript must be submitted.
 I do not possess the experience and/or education required to qualify for the position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙