Position Title
Supervisory Die Manufacturing Specialist
Agency
U.S. Mint
Announcement Number
26-MINT-12951084-M Opens in new window
Open Period
May 04, 2026 to May 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you a surplus or displaced Federal employee eligible under the Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)?  Click CTAP for eligibility and a detailed list of required documents you must submit in order to be eligible.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current US Mint employee who is eligible for competitive consideration under any of the following categories?
Current US Mint employee in the Competitive service on a permanent career or career-conditional appointment
Current US Mint employee serving on a VRA appointment.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current US Mint employee who currently holds (or have previously held) on a permanent basis, a position in the competitive service (or in another merit system with which OPM has an interchange agreement), with promotion potential equivalent to (or higher than) the full performance level of the position advertised in this vacancy announcement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


2.
Where did you learn about this Department of the Treasury job opportunity?
 A. FedExperience website
 B. USAJOBS website
 C. Community Organization
 D. Employment Office (Federal/State or Local)
 E. Friend/Relative
 F. Job Fair, Conference, or Convention
 G. Magazine
 H. Newspaper
 I. School, College, Counselor
 J. Vacancy Announcement Posting
 K. Professional Organization
 L. Radio/TV
 M. Other


3.
If you were born a male after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, have you registered with the Selective Service System (select "Not applicable" if this question does not apply to you)?
 Yes
 No
 No, but I have an approved exemption
 Not applicable


4.
Are you a current Federal employee?
 Yes
 No


5.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held.


6.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply.)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. I have not attended any sessions.


7.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


8.
Please select one of the following choices:
 I am a current U.S. Mint employee on a career or career-conditional (permanent) appointment in the competitive service.
 I am a current MINT employee serving on a Veterans Recruitment Appointment (VRA).
 I am currently on a Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligible from the local commuting area.
 I do not meet any of the above choices.


Assessment 1
1.
Specialized experience is one year of experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent in other public or private sectors, that is directly related to the position listed in this announcement and which has equipped the candidate with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to successfully perform the duties of the position. Specialized experience is defined as:

-Providing senior-level executive management and oversight of high level product production; AND
-Providing leadership to subordinate managers and first, second and third-tier subordinate supervisors: AND
-Using lean manufacturing techniques to manage resources, establish controls, promote efficiencies, and ensure quality products and process are used to meet the production goals.

Select the answer that best describes your experience as it directly relates to the specialized experience statement. Carefully review your application and ensure that your response is supported by your resume.
 I have one full year or more of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.
 I do not have one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the definition as described above.


2.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find this specialized experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


3.
From the list below, please indicate all of the duties in which you have independently led personnel in a production or manufacturing work environment.
 A. Planning and adhering to established daily, weekly or monthly work assignment schedules, deadlines, priorities, methods and policies.
 B. Delegating responsibility and work with and through others.
 C. Establishing program objectives.
 D. Motivating subordinate supervisors to perform accurate and efficient supervision to employees on a team to produce a quality result.
 E. Instructing, guiding and reviewing the work of others.
 F. Leading a large-sized group of subordinate supervisors and employees.
 G. Leading a medium-sized team of subordinate supervisors and employees.
 H. Meeting daily goals and priorities (directing operations).
 I. Resolving informal grievances.
 J. Conducting safety meetings on a scheduled basis.
 K. Preparing formal performance appraisals/evaluating performance of subordinate supervisors.
 L. Recommending the selection of employees.
 M. Organizing and communicating changes in programs.
 N. COR certified for Project and contract management.
 O. Administering progressive disciplinary actions to correct performance or behaviors as applicable.
 P. None of the above.


4.
Please check each of the following lean manufacturing principles or concepts for which you have had experience implementing.
 A. Quick Response Manufacturing (QRM)
 B. Six Sigma
 C. Total Productive Maintenance (TPM)
 D. Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE)
 E. Process Control Systems
 F. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
 G. Kanban
 H. COR Certified
 I. Kaizen
 J. Lean Flow
 K. SMED
 L. Mistake Proofing
 M. Supermarket
 N. Third Party Logistics (3PL)
 O. None of the above


5.
Please choose the following areas you have experience serving as a technical consultant or authority to top management and division heads.
 A. Monitoring day-to-day operations and ensuring coordination of activities with other divisions within an organization.
 B. Addressing technical contract discrepancies regarding purchase and service requirements.
 C. Participating in the development of overall plans for expansion of operations.
 D. I have no experience in any of the above areas.


6.
Select the response that best describes your experience in developing and executing a vision for an organization, issue, or initiative.
 I have identified opportunities for improvement and presented suggestions to my supervisor/manager for implementation. I have led the effort to prepare and implement a vision.
 I have identified opportunities for improvement that involved gaining the support of others in my workgroup and managers in the organization.
 I have served in a key role for developing the strategic plan for my organization.
 I have led the implementation of a key organizational initiative that required collaborative development and communication of a shared vision.
 I have collaboratively developed and implemented a shared vision with multiple stakeholders that were directly adopted/sponsored by a Senior Executive of the agency.
 None of the above.


7.
As a supervisor it is very important to be able to communicate and develop subordinates through various coaching, grievance and complaint processes. Please select the areas that you have had direct experience with.
 A. Facilitating in face-to-face groups
 B. Conflict Management
 C. Managing within a Bargaining Unit environment
 D. Conduct and document formal appraisals and reviews
 E. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR)
 F. Creating statements of work and negotiating service contracts
 G. Communicating support of employee assistance policies to subordinates
 H. Mediation
 I. Corrective and Progressive discipline
 J. None of the above


8.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find this specialized experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


9.
Have you had experience working with Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Programs and helping to ensure a harassment and discrimination free workplace?
 Yes
 No


10.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find this specialized experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


11.
Please choose the areas in which you have experience.
 A. Prevention of Sexual Harassment Program.
 B. Alternative Dispute Resolution Program.
 C. Affirmative Employment Program for Minorities and Women.
 D. Formal Complaint Process.
 E. Informal Complaint Process.
 F. None of the Above.


12.
Please choose the duties with which you have experience.
 A. Developing and/or monitoring Preventative Maintenance schedules.
 B. Team Building
 C. Creating and managing shift / scheduling rosters
 D. Determining work requirements and scheduling overtime to meet deadlines
 E. Establishing workload priorities based on project importance and manning availability
 F. Determine equipment and material requirements for installation, maintenance and repairs
 G. Relaying and explaining instructions to other employees
 H. Time Management
 I. Risk Management Analysis
 J. Implementing a Project Plan
 K. None of the above


13.
Select the software applications you are proficient in (proficient means you understand and use a major part of the system's functionality/capabilities).
 A. Oracle Access
 B. Data management/spreadsheet software
 C. Automated Data Collection System
 D. Electronic mail and messaging
 E. Maximo Access
 F. Other Application Systems (i.e. time and attendance, accounting, scientific, security, supply, etc.)
 G. Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) Systems
 H. None of the above


14.
Select the responses that best describes your oral communication experience.
 A. I served as the program lead on job related issues.
 B. I Initiated and maintained contact with individuals outside the organization.
 C. I persuaded others to take a particular course of action.
 D. I persuaded others to accept findings, recommendations, changes or alternative viewpoints.
 E. I exchanged information and discussed issues and options available with program managers.
 F. I participated in and represented the organization at briefings, meetings, and conferences.
 G. I made informal presentations to co-workers on management/supervisory issues.
 H. I made formal presentations to co-workers using briefing slides, graphics, flip charts, and/or overheads.
 I. I made formal presentations to management or management teams.
 J. I design and deliver formal courses of training or instruction using a variety of electronic media.
 K. I protect and relay sensitive and/or controversial information to only appropriate parties.
 L. None of the above


15.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find this specialized experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


16.
Do you have experience working with and ensuring work is performed in compliance with all OSHA regulations?
 Yes
 No


17.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find this specialized experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


18.
Do you have experience actively supporting a safety and health program applicable to the agency and with all rules, regulations and orders and other responsible authorities with respect to the Occupational Safety Program?
 Yes
 No


19.
This experience must be clearly documented in your resume. Indicate where we can find this specialized experience to ensure you receive proper credit.


20.
Select the following statement(s) that best describe your experience developing and implementing plans and goals.
 A. I have participated in or led the development of divisions strategic plans.
 B. I have ensured cohesive integration of strategic planning, budgeting and financial management.
 C. I have defined, analyzed, and prepared data and information for the planning and execution of strategic plans.
 D. I have integrated performance measurements into the budget process.
 E. I have not performed any of the above tasks.


21.
Choose the response that best reflects your strategic planning experience.
 I have provided input into annual operational plans, including goals and objectives, for a cross-functional management team that aligns with organizational strategic plans.
 I have developed annual operational plans, including goals and objectives, for a cross-functional management team that aligns with organizational strategic plans.
 I have reviewed strategic plan draft documents and provided recommendations.
 I have served as the main contact to senior executives and participated in all aspects of strategic planning for an organization: including assessing recommendations are integrated into the strategic plan and related operational plans of offices.
 I have no experience in this area.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙