Position Title
SUPERVISORY QUALITY ASSURANCE SPECIALIST (T32 Merit)
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
MN-13038773-AF-26-132 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
All on-board federal employees/technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 and Title 5, Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board federal employee or technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2,or 3).
 Yes
 No


2.
All on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technicians within the state for which you are applying (Title 32 Permanent and Excepted Indefinite).  Are you a current on-board National Guard Title 32 Excepted Technician within the state for which this position is being advertised?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF 50) reflecting your Tenure in Block 24 (1, 2, or 3).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to indicate your current military status.


1.
I am currently:

 A permanent or indefinite technician in the Minnesota National Guard.(Must provide your SF50.)
 A traditional member of the Minnesota National Guard.
 A traditional member of the National Guard in a different state.
 Eligible for enlistment/appointment in the Minnesota National Guard. *NOTE: (For enlistment/appointment criteria contact 1-800-464-8273 for Army criteria or 1-800-835-3764 for Air Force criteria).
 Not interested in joining the Minnesota National Guard.


2.
Please provide your rank, grade and AFSC/ MOS. *



Respond to all the questions below. For each question choose the response below that best describes your experience and/or training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


3.
Do you acknowledge your resume reflects the following:

Resume Reminder- Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:
• Job Title (example: Aircraft Mechanic, Supply Specialist, etc)
• Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible based on the duties you perform or have performed. Do not copy and paste the PD duties or required experience as that will not be used as a reflection of qualifications.)
• Employer's name and address
• Supervisor's name and contact information
• Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2021 to April 2024)
• Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
• Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
• Tech school start and end dates, if applicable
• High school graduation date, if applicable
• AFSC/ MOS to include skill level and rank
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Verbiage displayed on your resume or application must contain your own words. You may refer to position descriptions, i.e. the general and specialized experience located within the vacancy announcement, to assist with describing work experiences; however, resumes or applications received in verbatim will not be considered. Please use as much detail as needed, giving dates (months and years) of the experience, position title and how the experience was gained. This information is needed to determine if you are qualified for the position.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. The applicant's record of experience and/or training must show possession of the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to fully perform the duties of the position.

 Yes
 No


4.
Does your experience, training and resume support the Specialized Experience criteria below? Specialized Experience: Experience that demonstrated a practical knowledge in monitoring, controlling, or maintaining the quality of products or services in quality assurance, procurement, inspection, production, or related areas. Examples include:
• Reviewing production activities and capabilities in light of contract quality requirements.
• Reviewing written quality or inspection procedures for adequacy, and evaluating the implementation and effectiveness of quality/inspection systems, including sampling plans.
• Analyzing quality data to detect unsatisfactory trends or weaknesses in the quality/inspection system.
• Verifying by test or inspection, using sampling inspection or intensive product inspection techniques, that products comply with requirements prior to acceptance.
• Identifying inadequacies and requesting corrective action.
• Computing data, summarizing results, and preparing reports or charts depicting pertinent relationships using statistical methods.
• Investigating customer complaints and deficiency reports, and providing identification of causes to appropriate authorities.
• Reading, interpreting, and applying technical data such as blueprints, engineering drawings, product specifications, or technical manuals.
• Reviewing and evaluating supply systems operations and procedures through periodic audits and surveillance inspections.
GS-12 - 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. In addition to the OPM IORs, specialized experience includes experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of product or range of products involved, the manufacturing methods and techniques, special processes, test, and performance requirements; and skill in developing plans and programs. Experience possessed by an expert in specialization able to give technical direction to otherwise competent workers. Experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found. Experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e., special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field. Experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for the function required by type of position to be filled and the organization involved.

 Yes
 No


5.
Does your experience, training and resume support the General Experience criteria below?
General Experience requirements: Experience in fields such as quality control, quality inspection, contracting and purchasing, supply and storage, industrial or production planning, research and engineering, maintenance, and test and evaluation that provided (1) familiarity with quality assurance or related work, (2) pertinent product or process knowledge and skill, (3) ability to interpret and apply contract requirements and engineering specifications, and (4) skill in dealing with others in person-to-person work relationships.
 Yes
 No


INSTRUCTIONS: Please read and respond to all the questions below. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provide in your resume or application and information your references provide.


6.
In detail, explain your experience, education, or training involving a thorough knowledge of product or range of products involved, the manufacturing methods and techniques, special processes, test, and performance requirements; and skill in developing plans and programs.


7.
In detail, explain your experience demonstrating expertise in being a specialist able to give technical direction to otherwise competent workers.


8.
In detail, explain your experience determining operations when difficult and questionable phases of malfunctions are found.


9.
In detail, explain your experience which required significant and concrete work accomplishments (i.e., special projects, working groups, or detailing assignments) involving interpersonal contacts in a quality assurance or related field


10.
In detail, explain your experience in dealing with management principles and supervisory responsibility for the function required by type of position to be filled and the organization involved.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


11.
Do you acknowledge that your resume supports your answers to the assessment questions?
 Yes
 No


12.
Your responses in this Assessment Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification using your resume. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for disqualifying you or for dismissing you from employment following acceptance. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy. If you fail to answer this question, you will be disqualified from consideration for this position.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙