Position Title
Lead Financial Systems & Procedures Analyst
Agency
Veterans Benefits Administration
Announcement Number
101-OFM-12986042-26-BF-NBU Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 17, 2026 to Jun 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Are you an employee of the facility indicated for this position?
This includes: Career/Career Conditional or Excepted Service (i.e. Canteen, Hybrid, Title 38, etc. and meets interchange agreement requirements). This does not include temporary, term or temporary intermittent.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50).  Your SF-50 must include enough information to be able to determine that time-in-grade requirements have been met (if applicable) and include your position title, pay plan/series/grade, tenure and the type of appointment (i.e. Competitive or Excepted).  Please be aware that award SF-50's do not always include this pertinent information.
 Yes
 No


2.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a specific vacancy at or below your current grade level with no greater promotion potential than your current position; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with Department of the Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration. We will evaluate your resume and your response to this occupational questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Choose the answers below which best describe your employment and experience. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.



This vacancy is opened ONLY to (1) current, permanent Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) Office of Financial Management (OFM) employees; OR (2) Veterans Affairs (VA) Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) eligibles.


1.
From the descriptions below, please select the response that BEST reflects your eligibility under the Area of Consideration for Lead Financial Systems & Procedures Analyst GS-0501-14.
 • I am currently employed by the Office of Financial Management (OFM) Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA).
 • I am a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position and can confirm that: I'm located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND, applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND, my grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of the vacancy; AND, my last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 My status is not described in any of the options above and therefore I am ineligible because I am NOT in the Area of Consideration (AOC).


TIME-IN-GRADE - As a current Federal GS employee you must meet time-in-grade requirements.


2.
Time-In-Grade: At the GS-14 grade level, you must have served 52 weeks at the GS-13 or held the GS-14 or higher grade. Please select the response below that most accurately describes you.
 I have held a GS-14 grade (or higher).
 I have at least one year in a GS-13 position.
 Neither A nor B applies to me.


The following section is used to determine your job related experience. Please select the most appropriate response to the following questions. 

NOTE: You must have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the next lower grade level in the Federal Service.



3.
From the description below, please select the response that best reflects your level of experience that has equipped you to perform as a Lead Financial Systems & Procedures Analyst at the GS-14 level.

Specialized Experience GS-14: To qualify for this position at the GS-14 level, applicants must have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-13 level and demonstrate the specialized experience as described for the GS-13 level at an expert level. In addition, the applicant must also demonstrate specialized experience to include advanced knowledge of the organizational functions and procedures of the Office of Financial Management; specifically, Financial Operations and Reengineering Division, to conduct projects individually or as a group leader of all financial operations, policies and procedures, reports, and studies. Mastery of developing new approaches to resolving complex Finance related issues. Expert at negotiating effectively with management at all levels to accept and implement recommendations which may require changes in established procedures or may conflict with the desires of the activity studied.
 I have a minimum of one (1) year specialized experience at the GS-13 level or equivalent, or higher.
 I do not have the specialized experience requirement as listed in the vacancy announcement.


Your rating is subject to verification based on the resume, narratives and other relevant documents you submit, and through verification of references as appropriate. Deliberate attempts to falsify information are grounds for non-selection and for termination. In addition, falsifying information on your application can result in your being barred from federal employment.



4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.
 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith .
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙