Position Title
Production Machinery Mechanic
Agency
U.S. Army Joint Munitions Command
Announcement Number
MCGL-26-12938042 - DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 21, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and an annual examination thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position meet the criteria for compliance with Federal and Department of the Army Drug Free Workplace Programs. Detection of the presence of drugs is warranted. This position is subject to a pre-employment screening, and random testing thereafter, to include testing based on reasonable suspicion and testing due to direct involvement with an on-duty accident. Are you willing to refrain from the use of illegal drugs and submit to a pre-employment drug screening and random testing thereafter to obtain and maintain employment in this position?
 Yes
 No


3.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with the requirement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Production Machinery Mechanic position with Department of the Army. We will evaluate your resume and your responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit this questionnaire.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Production Machinery Mechanic duties without more than normal supervision.
 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Production Machinery Mechanic duties such as installing, repairing, overhauling, aligning, and testing unusually complex equipment while interpreting multi-view drawings, sketches, and specifications and applying a variety of methods and techniques. I am skilled in making diagnostic assessment of machine control boxes in sufficient depth to trace symptoms of equipment malfunction and distinguish electrical or electronic mechanical, pneumatic, and hydraulic failures. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range Production Machinery Mechanic duties such as installing, repairing, overhauling, aligning, and testing fixed and semi-fixed production machinery equipment while interpreting multi-view drawings, sketches, specifications and applying a variety of methods and techniques. I am skilled in disassembling and repairing standard machinery and equipment, diagnosing and locating the cause of operational failures, determining the nature and extent of repairs, and utilizing blueprints, schematics, and technical manuals to complete repairs. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection.
 I have the ability to perform common Production Machinery Mechanic duties such as applying specific maintenance and repair procedures to install, repair, overhaul, align, and test production machinery equipment while interpreting multi-view drawings, sketches, and specifications and applying a variety of methods and techniques. I can detect malfunctions, determine corrective measures, and make repairs using test equipment and measuring devices, such as feeler gauges, micrometers, tachometers, portable machines, and hand tools. I work under normal supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 I have the ability to perform simple Production Machinery Mechanic duties such as repairs on production machinery equipment or I have received training on performing basic repairs on production machinery equipment.
 I do not possess the abilities described above.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙