Position Title
Physician Assistant
Agency
National Institutes of Health
Announcement Number
NIH-SR-DE-26-12860693 Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 09, 2026 to Feb 23, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces OR the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status or who is 100% disabled due to a service-connected injury?
If so, you may be eligible to be considered for a noncompetitive appointment.

Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation: https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-certain-military-spouses-eligibility

Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a military spouse? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently a member of the United States Public Health Service (PHS) or a Call-to-Active Duty (CAD) candidate, and interested in performing the duties of this position within the Commissioned Corps (CC)? If so, we welcome you to apply to be considered for a PHS noncompetitive appointment (courtesy referral), and not as a candidate for conversion to a permanent career or career-conditional appointment.   
Required Documents: 
For Active Duty USPHS Commissioned Corps Officers: Submit your latest Personnel Order (PHS-7063). 
For USPHS Commissioned Corps Call-To-Active Duty (CAD) Candidates: In lieu of PHS Personnel Order (PHS-7063), submit an official copy of your USPHS CAD Medical and Processional Boarding notifications stating you are physically qualified and recommended for appointment.  
  
Visit our NIH Jobs page for more information on eligibility and required documentation:  https://hr.nih.gov/jobs/announcement-links/appointment-commissioned-corps-eligibility  
 
Based on the above and the referenced web page, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a noncompetitive appointment as a CC officer? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package before the announcement closes. 


 Yes
 No


4.
Have you been laid off or received a letter stating that you will be laid off from federal employment, or have your disability payments from your previous federal employment stopped? If so, you may be entitled to selection priority under the under the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) or Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP). 

You must submit the following documents with your application:
copy of your current (or last) performance rating of record; and,
proof of ICTAP eligibility or proof of CTAP eligibility
Note: Your proof of eligibility MUST show the position, grade level and duty location of the position from which you were (or will be) separated and your full performance level or career ladder.  To ensure you fulfil this requirement, submit an SF-50 (Notification of a Personnel Action) that contains this information along with your proof of ICTAP or CTAP eligibility.  

Visit our ICTAP or CTAP pages for more information on eligibility and required documentation. 

Based on the above and the referenced web pages, are you eligible for ICTAP or CTAP?  If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

 Yes
 No


5.

Are you an individual with a documented intellectual, severe physical, or psychiatric disability that substantially limits one or more major life activities? If so, you may be eligible for employment through a Schedule A appointment. 

In order to be eligible, documentation of the disability is required. Documentation of eligibility for employment under Schedule A can be obtained from a licensed medical professional (e.g., a physician or other medical professional certified by a state, the District of Columbia, or a U.S. territory to practice medicine); a licensed vocational rehabilitation specialist (i.e., state or private); or any Federal agency, state agency, or agency of the District of Columbia or a U.S. territory that issues or provides disability benefits. The letter must include official office logo, stamp, or letterhead of a medical professional or it is invalid. Please visit OPM's website for sample letters. Learn more about Schedule A eligibility. 

Applying under "Schedule A" can be an expedited way to get a federal job, but it is only one of many options that may be available. You will still have to compete with other eligible applicants and meet all requirements of the position including the ability to perform the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodations. 

Based on the above, are you eligible, and do you wish to be considered for, a Schedule A appointment? If so, you must select "Yes" and provide the required documents with your application package, before the announcement closes.

A. Yes

B. No

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


2.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Baltimore, MD
 B. Montgomery County, MD


Other
1.
Political, Schedule C, Non-career SES Appointee: In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you been or are you currently an employee in the Executive Branch serving on a political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointment? If yes, and you are selected through this vacancy announcement, you may be required to obtain approval by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) prior to beginning employment.

A political appointee is an appointment made by the President without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an Assistant position to a top-level Federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)). A Non-career SES appointee is approved by the White House and serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations. A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service by the President, or by the Director, OPM, because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties.
 Yes
 No


2.
Almost all U.S. citizens and immigrants who are born a male and who are 18 through 25, are required to register with Selective Service. Federal law and regulations require covered civil service employees to register before appointment. For more information, visit the Selective Service website to determine if you are required to register: https://www.sss.gov/register/who-needs-to-register/.

What is your Selective Service Registration Status?
 I was born a female, and therefore, I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and have registered with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959, and therefore I am exempt from registering with the Selective Service.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service, but I have an approved exemption.
 I was born a male after December 31, 1959, and I have not registered with the Selective Service.


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Physician Assistant position at our agency. The following items refer to the qualifications specified in the job announcement. Please be sure to read the instructions carefully and answer the questions to the best of your ability. 



1.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Basic Educational Requirements for a Physician Assistant, GS-0603 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I have graduated from a physician assistant educational program, accredited by the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) or its predecessors, at a college, university, or educational institution that is accredited by an accrediting body or organization recognized by the U.S. Department of Education; AND I have successfully completed the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants (NCCPA) examination; AND I have maintained status as a certified physician assistant, including completion of all requirements for continuing medical education (CME) and re-certification.
 My education does not match the choice above.


2.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Basic Licensure Requirements for a Physician Assistant, GS-0603 as described in the Qualifications Section of the Vacancy Announcement.
 I qualify for this position because I possess a current, active, full, and unrestricted license or registration as a Physician Assistant from a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or a territory of the United States.
 My certification status does not match the choice above.


3.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements for a Physician Assistant, GS-0603-12, as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-12 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to at least the GS-11 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: 1. Conducted physical assessments and examinations of patients and delivered appropriate treatment. 2. Collaborated with physicians and research staff to coordinate patient care and ensure protocol adherence. 3. Collected and analyzed patient data to support reports and research findings.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


4.
Choose the one answer that best describes how you meet the Additional Qualification Requirements for a Physician Assistant, GS-0603-13, as described in the Qualifications section of the vacancy announcement.
 I qualify for this position at the GS-13 level because I have 1 year of specialized experience as a certified physician assistant equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service obtained in either the private or public sector, performing the following types of tasks: 1. Conducted comprehensive physical assessments and examinations of patients with complex health conditions and delivered appropriate treatment. 2. Served as a specialty consultant to nursing services and other health disciplines on patient care and protocols. 3. Managed and analyzed patient data and developed analytical reports to support program assessments.
 My experience does not match the choice above.


Accomplishment Record Instructions for Applicants - You are invited to complete the Accomplishment Record (AR) portion of your application. This assessment is designed to gather examples of your past experience that reflect the critical competencies required for the position.


What You Need to Do - You will be asked to respond to four prompts, each representing a critical competency needed for this vacancy announcement. For each prompt:

 -Provide one specific example from your professional experience.

 -Use the guiding questions to help develop a comprehensive response. You are not required to answer the questions in bullet or list form; however, your narrative should address each aspect to ensure a complete and well-developed example.

 -Ensure your response addresses all required elements, including situation, responsibilities, actions taken, outcomes, and verification information.


Response Format

 -Length: Maximum of 2,500 characters per response.
 -Style: Use full sentences in narrative form.
 -Structure: Use the Situation, Responsibility, Action, and Outcome (SRAO) framework to organize your response. Include required verification information. 

 Important Notes

 -Your AR responses must be written solely by you. Do not use AI (e.g., ChatGPT or similar tools) or receive assistance from others in drafting or refining your narratives.
 -Do not include confidential or proprietary information in your responses.
 -Responses are evaluated based on the level of responsibility, complexity, and results demonstrated, consistent with the grade level and position.
 -Spell out technical acronyms or jargon to ensure clarity for raters.

Tips for Success

 -Choose real, past examples-avoid hypothetical scenarios.
 -Focus on what you personally did and the specific results of your actions.
 -If describing a team effort, clearly explain your individual contributions.
 -Emphasize outcomes and impact (e.g., what changed, improved, or was accomplished).
 -Strong responses describe actions in sufficient detail and demonstrate appropriate responsibility, independent judgement, complexity, and clear impact aligned with the position.



5.
Describe a time when you recognized a patient's abnormal finding or condition that required urgent attention.

-What helped you recognize the issue?

-What actions did you take to address the situation?

-What was the outcome?



6.
Tell me about a time you used your clinical judgment to develop or adjust a patient's care plan.

-What factors did you consider in making your decision?

-How did you communicate your plan to the care team?

-What was the outcome for the patient?


7.
Describe a time when you collaborated with other healthcare team members to coordinate or improve patient care.

-Who were involved?

-What challenges did you face in aligning the team's efforts?

-What was the result of your collaboration?


8.
Tell me about a situation where you provided direction, consultation, or training to other healthcare staff.

-What was the context?

-How did you assess whether your guidance was effective?

-What was the impact on staff performance or patient outcomes?


9.
As an applicant for federal employment you are required to provide accurate, complete, and honest information. All applicants are treated fairly and equally, so it is important you know what is required of you. You must read this question, then certify your application. You will be disqualified from consideration for this position if you do not answer this question or do not certify your application.

I understand that if I misrepresent or exaggerate my experience or education, or provide false, fraudulent, or misleading information in or with my application, it may be grounds for not hiring me, firing me after I begin work, and may be punishable by fine, imprisonment, or debarment from federal employment.

I understand that not following the information and instructions contained in the vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating, or me not being considered for certain eligibilities, preferences, grade-levels, specialties, and other areas of the announcement that require me to provide information.

Do you certify that you have read this statement and understand what is required of you, and certify that to the best of your knowledge and belief, all of the information included in your application is true, correct, and provided in good faith?
 Yes, I certify my application.
 No, I do not certify my application and understand I will therefore be disqualified from consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙