Position Title
Seasonal Wildland Firefighter (Fire Effects and Fuels Monitoring) - Direct Hire Authority
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NPSFAM-26-12809506-TEMP Opens in new window
Open Period
Saturday, November 15, 2025 to Saturday, November 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position?   If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center. 
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position?  If yes, confirm:
you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.  
 
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Denali National Park, Denali Park, AK
 B. Yukon–Charley Rivers National Preserve, Fairbanks, AK
 C. Grand Canyon National Park, Grand Canyon, AZ
 D. Yosemite National Park, El Portal, CA
 E. Redwood National and State Parks, Orick, CA
 F. Sequoia National Park, Three Rivers, CA
 G. Rocky Mountain National Park, Estes Park, CO
 H. Indiana Dunes National Park, Porter, IN
 I. Natchez Trace Parkway, Tupelo, MS
 J. Ozark National Scenic Riverways, Van Buren, MO
 K. Glacier National Park, West Glacier, MT
 L. Great Smoky Mountains National Park, Waynesville, NC
 M. Wind Cave National Park, Hot Springs, SD
 N. Lake Meredith National Recreation Area, Fritch, TX
 O. Zion National Park, Springdale, UT
 P. Shenandoah National Park, Luray, VA
 Q. North Cascades National Park, Marblemount, WA
 R. Grand Teton National Park, Moose, WY
 S. Yellowstone National Park, Yellowstone National Park, WY


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
4
5
6


3.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet one of these basic requirements, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. IMPORTANT - PLEASE NOTE: If you are using education to qualify you must document your course work and/or degree completed in your resume or other application materials you submit. You must submit a copy of your transcripts that identifies for each course the college or university, semester or quarter hours earned, grade received, and date completed. If you are qualifying based on education and you do not submit specific course work information described below, your application will be rated not qualified for consideration. (A copy of your official transcripts will be required before entrance on duty, if selected). Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THESE QUESTIONS WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING. Your responses to the following minimum qualifications question, as well as the other questions in the questionnaire, in conjunction with the information provided in your completed application, will be evaluated to determine your qualifications for this position. Read all responses before making your selection. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWERS YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS.


1.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-04 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Fire Effects and Fuels Monitoring) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.

 I have 6 months of general work experience in any field AND 6 months of specialized work experience equivalent to the GS/GW-03 level duties in the Federal service, or equivalent, which includes the following: Experience in plant identification, wildfire, fuels, prescribed fire, and/or post-fire operations, collecting vegetation, fuels, weather, fire behavior, or collecting ecological data in any related job field. OR Successful completion of a 2-year course of study in an accredited college or university with major study in Fire Science, Fire Training, Fire Technology or other related fields of study. OR Combinations of successfully completed post-high school education and specialized experience. The education must have been obtained in an accredited business, secretarial or technical school, junior college, college, or university with major study in Fire Science, Fire Training, Fire Technology, or other related fields of study.
 I have successfully completed 2 years of study that included at least 12 semester hours in any combination of courses such as biology, chemistry, statistics, entomology, animal husbandry, botany, physics, agriculture, or mathematics. At least 6 semester hours of courses must be directly related to the position to be filled.
 I have a combination of qualifying specialized experience and education.
 I do not have the experience or education as described in any of the above statements.


2.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-05 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Fire Effects and Fuels Monitoring) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GW/GS-04 level in the Federal service, or equivalent, which includes the following: Experience as a member of a crew performing fire effects monitoring, wildfire, fuels, prescribed fire, and/or post-fire operations, collecting vegetation, fuels, weather, fire behavior, or ecological data in any related job field; collecting data to assess burn severity or fire effects after prescribed fire or wildfire.
 I have successfully completed of a 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university with major study in Fire Science, Fire Training, Fire Technology or other related fields of study.
 I have a combination of qualifying specialized experience and education. One full academic year of study beyond the second year is equivalent to 6 months of specialized experience. I have provided copies of my transcripts.
 I do not have the experience or education as described above.


3.
From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the specialized experience and requirements for the GW-06 level of this GW-0456 Wildland Firefighter (Fire Effects and Fuels Monitoring) position. Read all responses before making your selection. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position.
 I have at least one year of specialized experience at the GW/GS-05 level in the Federal service, or equivalent, which includes the following: Experience as a member of a fire monitoring or wildland fire crew. The applicant must possess experience in any field that demonstrates the ability to lead or assist in leading others; executing fire management activities in fire suppression, fuels management, fire effects and fuels monitoring, and post-fire such as measuring and documenting vegetation and fuels information; identifying plant species; collecting and reporting fire behavior and weather data; performing wildfire, fuels, prescribed fire, and/or post-fire operations.
 I do not have the experience as described above.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙