Position Title
Chief of Staff, Office of Inspector General
Agency
Headquarters, NASA
Announcement Number
NASA OIG-12956797-ST-26 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 04, 2026 to Jun 18, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
This category includes veterans whose discharge was under honorable conditions AND:
• who served 3 or more years of continuous active duty service in the military (NOTE: if released shortly before completing a 3-year tour, you are considered to
meet this eligibility); or
• who have preference eligibility; or

• who have derived preference

Veterans Employment Opportunity Act of 1998, as amended (VEOA) is a competitive service appointing authority that can only be used when filling permanent, competitive service positions. It cannot be used to fill excepted service positions. "Preference eligible" under VEOA includes those family members entitled to derived preference. For eligibility information and supporting documentation requirements, go to VEOA Derived Preference. Supporting documentation: You are required to submit acceptable documentation of your preference or appointment eligibility. Acceptable documentation is:• DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty," showing dates of service, as well as character of service (Honorable, General, etc.). The member 4 copy of your DD Form 214 is preferable (Note: If you have more than one DD Form 214 for multiple periods of active duty service, you should submit a copy for each period of service.); OR• Future Military Retirees*: You are required to submit a copy of your retirement DD Form 214 OR a copy of your approved retirement letter AND a copy of your terminal leave letter OR certification document**. You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment; OR• Future Military Separatees*: You are required to submit a copy of your most recent DD Form 214 OR certification document** OR a copy of your most recent active duty orders AND a copy of your terminal leave request (if applicable). You will be required to provide your DD Form 214 prior to appointment.• Disabled Veterans: You are required to submit a copy of one of the separation documents identified above AND documentation of your overall service connected disability identified on the SF-15, page 2, section B or Section C.

*Active duty military members who are selected may not be appointed unless on terminal leave before the effective date of employment. ** The "certification" is any written document from the armed forces that certifies the service member is expected to be discharged or released from active duty service in the armed forces under honorable conditions not later than 120 days after the certification is submitted for consideration in the hiring process. The certification letter should be on letterhead of the appropriate military branch of the service and contain (1) the military service dates including the expected discharge or release date; and (2) the character of service. Prior to appointment, the service member's character of service and qualifying discharge or release must be verified through a DD form 214 or equivalent documentation. The SF-15 is available on the U.S. Office of Personnel Management forms webpage. You may request copies of your military personnel records online. Additional Veterans' preference information U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Government-wide Veterans Employment webpage U.S. Office of Personnel Management Veterans Services webpage (OPM Vet Guide)

Are you applying for consideration under the VEOA?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years, based on the closing date of this announcement, have you served or are you currently serving as an Executive Branch political, Schedule C, or Non-career SES appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at your Standard Form 50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.

This means you are currently serving or have served in a political appointment requiring Senate confirmation (PAS) or not requiring Senate confirmation (PA); noncareer Senior Executive Service; political appointees under the Executive Schedule; Political Schedule A; Schedule C appointments; or other political appointments based on agency authority.

The Office of Personnel management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees. If you are currently, or have been within the last 5 years, a political Schedule A, Schedule C, Non-career SES or Presidential Appointee employee in the Executive Branch, you must disclose this information to the Human Resources Office.
 Yes
 No


Federal Employee
1.
Are you a current federal employee on a career or career conditional appointment; OR on a NASA term appointment with conversion eligibility; OR a current permanent federal employee of an excepted service agency with an OPM interchange agreement; OR a Veteran eligible under Veterans Employment Opportunity Act.
 Yes
 No


2.
If you are a CURRENT Federal Employee, please list your current pay plan, series and grade level/pay band. If you are not a current Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


3.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please list the HIGHEST pay plan, series, and grade level/pay band held. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


4.
If you are a CURRENT or FORMER Federal Employee, please provide the DURATION of the highest grade held. For example, 01/10/19- Present or 09/08/19 to 06/30/20. If you are not a current or former Federal Employee, write "N/A" in the space provided.


Assessment 1
Instructions
Please ensure the information in your resume matches your answers to the questions. Please be sure your answers and resume are accurate, as NASA can only qualify you based on your responses. You may be rated ineligible if you do not meet the minimum qualification requirements of the position.


Specialized Experience
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, you must be a recognized subject matter expert with at least 1 year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-15 level in extensive experience working directly with the United States Congress or in a federal legislative affairs role, including managing congressional inquiries, briefings, or testimony, experience serving in a leadership role supporting an agency head, or senior executive within the federal government and experience coordinating with federal leadership to ensure consistent positions, compliance with law and policy, and effective intergovernmental collaboration while preserving organizational independence..


1.
Do you have the specialized experience described above?
 I have the required specialized experience.
 I do not meet or have the required specialized experience.


Senior Level (SL) Evaluation Criteria
To meet the minimum qualification requirements for this position, your resume must address each of the Senior Level (SL) Evaluation Criteria.  Failure to address these qualifications will eliminate you from consideration.


2.
Will your resume address the SL Evaluation Criteria?
 Yes, my resume will address the SL Evaluation Criteria.
 No, my resume will not address the SL Evaluation Criteria and I will be rated ineligible.


Certification


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I certify that I worked independently and did not get any assistance from generative artificial intelligence applications (e.g., Bard, ChatGPT, Copilot) while completing any part of the application and hiring process. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this questionnaire and its supporting materials, or in any document or assessment associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. Part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that if my responses to this questionnaire are not substantiated by supporting documentation or later steps in the hiring process that my application may be rated lower or removed from further consideration.
 Yes, I certify all of the information provided above is true, accurate, and provided in good faith.
 No, I do not certify all of the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙