Position Title
Supervisory Information Technology Cybersecurity Specialist
Agency
Offices, Boards and Divisions
Announcement Number
JMD-CIO-26-12948328-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
May 15, 2026 to May 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice? 
To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND,
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND,
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND,
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent. 
For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center...

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, You must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50) form.
 Yes
 No


3.

Are you an employee that was involuntarily separated from another agency due to a reduction-in-force (RIF)?
The Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) is an inter-agency program that helps "surplus" or "displaced" federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job at another agency (not their current or former agency), by giving these employees selection priority over other applicants from outside the agency.

You may be eligible for ICTAP if:

You're a current federal employee who meets the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced employee—you've received official notice that your job is no longer needed or that you will lose your job by Reduction-in-Force (RIF).
The agency you're applying to is accepting applications from outside of their workforce.
The job you're applying to is in the local commuting area.
You meet the qualifications and other requirements of the job you're applying for.

For example, if you work for the Department of Defense and receive a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice, you can apply for a competitive service job in the local commuting area at the Department of Justice.

To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
In the last five years (from the closing date of this announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political, Schedule C, or Non-career Senior Executive Services appointee? You can find out if you have held one of these appointment types by looking at the SF-50s in your Electronic Official Personnel Folder (eOPF), in Section 5 where the legal authorities are listed.
A political appointee is an appointment made by the President with or without confirmation by the Senate (5 CFR 213.3102(c)) OR an assistant position to a top-level federal official if filled by a person designated by the President as a White House Fellow (5 CFR 213.3102(z)).
A Schedule C appointee occupies a position excepted from the competitive service because of the confidential or policy-determining nature of the position duties (5 CFR 213.3301 and 5 CFR 213.3302).
A noncareer SES appointee serves at the pleasure of the appointing official without time limitations (5 CFR 317 Subpart F).
 Yes, I have held one of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 No, I have not held any of the above appointment types in the last 5 years.
 I am uncertain if I have held any of these appointment types in the last 5 years.


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
You will be required to complete a pre-employment security investigation and background check which includes a drug screening. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


2.
You may be required to complete a one-year probationary or two-year trial period. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


3.
Selective Service registration is required for males born on, or after, December 31st 1959. Those not registered must submit an approved exemption. Please select the response that best fits how you meet this condition of employment. Please click here (https://www.sss.gov/faq/#who-needs-to-register) to learn more about who needs to register.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have registered for the Selective Service System.
 I am a male born before December 31st 1959, and am not required to registered for the Selective Service System.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not registered for the Selective Service System, but have a valid approved exemption. (Documentation must be submitted with your application.)
 I am not a male and am not required to register.
 I am a male born on, or after, December 31st 1959, and have not yet registered for the Selective Service System.


4.
If selected, you may be required to disclose financial information in accordance with DOJ and Federal ethics guidelines. Do you accept this condition?
 Yes
 No


5.
This position is supervisory as defined by the Office of Personnel Management's (OPM) General Schedule Supervisory Guide (GSSG).  A one year probation to assess your ability to perform supervisory duties is required unless previously completed.  Are you willing to serve a one year supervisory probation period?
 Yes
 No


6.
This position requires the candidate to be able to hold a security clearance at the Top Secret / SCI security level.  I certify that I possess a Top Secret / SCI security level clearance or am willing to obtain and maintain this clearance during the duration of my employment.
 Yes
 No


7.
This position requires the incumbent to obtain and maintain a FAC-COR and/or FAC-PM certification. Will you comply with this requirement?
 Yes
 No


Essay EO
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Supervisory Information Technology Cybersecurity Specialist, GS-2210-15, position with Department of Justice.  Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position.  Your responses are subject to verification.  Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Basic Qualifications for 2210 series: To qualify for the position of Supervisory Information Technology Cybersecurity Specialist GS-2210-15, all applicants must have IT-related experience demonstrating each of the four competencies listed below:

1) Attention to Detail - is thorough when performing work and conscientious about attention to detail.
2) Customer Service - works with clients and customers (that is, any individuals who use or receive the services or products that your work unit produces, including the general public, individuals who work in the agency, other agencies, or organizations outside the Government) to assess their needs, provide information or assistance, resolve their problems, or satisfy their expectations; knows about available products and services; is committed to providing quality products and services.
3) Oral Communication - expresses information (for example, ideas or facts) to individuals or groups effectively, taking into account the audience and nature of the information (for example, technical, sensitive, controversial); makes clear and convincing oral presentations; listens to others, attends to nonverbal cues, and responds appropriately.
4) Problem Solving - identifies problems; determines accuracy and relevance of information; uses sound judgement to generate and evaluate alternatives, and to make recommendations.
 I have Information Technology (IT) experience that demonstrates each of the following competencies: 1) Attention to Detail; 2) Customer Service; 3) Oral Communication and 4) Problem Solving.
 I do not have IT experience as stated in statement A above.


2.
Select the response that best describes your level of experience demonstrating your ability to perform Supervisory Information Technology Cybersecurity Specialist work at the GS-15 grade level in the Federal service, or comparable non-Federal experience.
 I demonstrate one (1) year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the GS-14 grade level in the Federal service, or comparable non-Federal experience, that includes experience providing direction and oversight over network monitoring, threat intelligence, and cybersecurity investigation services; managing current information technology budgets; AND overseeing a staff of information technology specialists.
 I do not demonstrate the specialized experience described above in statement A.


3.
Your responses to the announcement and questionnaire, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.
 I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


Assessment 2
1.
There are alerts that a public website is down. Network engineers said they are seeing high network utilization over the past 2 hours. What type of attack is this?
 Distributed Denial of Service
 Phishing Attack
 SQL injection Attack
 Brute Force attack
 Supply-Chain Attack


2.
A Cyber Threat Hunter is investigating suspicious traffic and is confident that the source workstation is infected with ransomware. What is the first step that an incident responder should take?

 Unplug power to the workstation
 Contain network traffic around the workstation
 Authenticate into the workstation and view the logs
 Run Anti-Virus on the workstation
 Unplug the keyboard to prevent users from accessing the workstation


3.
Which technology will most assist you with investigating historical events that lead to a breach?

 Intrusion Detection Systems
 Email Archiving
 Network Packet Capture
 Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response
 Security Information and Event Management


4.
What is the best definition of an Indicator of Compromise?

 Evidence that a vulnerability has been patched
 A known sign that a device may be adversely impacted
 A warning that your password is cracked
 An alert that your device is turned off
 Evidence that your data was decrypted by an adversary


5.
How can Endpoint Detection & Response be used during a security incident?

 Determine physical location of the impacted host
 Generate a network diagram
 Run Anti-Virus functions to eradicate malicious software
 Gather forensic data from the impacted host
 Execute a vulnerability scan to confirm the weaknesses


6.
What is the primary function of a firewall?

 Monitor network traffic
 Restrict inbound and outbound traffic
 Identify compromised users
 Encrypt network traffic
 Assign certificates


7.
What service is typically listening on port TCP/445?
 Secure Shell
 Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
 Server Message Block
 File Transfer Protocol
 Internet Protocol Security


8.
A coworker forwards a suspicious email to the SOC. How did you determine the email is a phishing attack?
 The subject is funny
 The email is advertising a current sale
 Email has a large attachment
 The links within the email went to a misspelled domain
 The coworker has a reliable history of reporting phishing emails


9.
Which definition best describes a SQL injection?

 An attack that overwhelms a system with SQL traffic
 Attacker uploads malicious SQL files
 Attacker inserts malicious SQL commands into input fields
 Attacker steals a victim SQL session
 Attacker tricks another user’s browser into performing SQL actions without their consent.


10.
Which common commercial product is best used to analyze a network packet capture file?

 Wireshark
 EnCase
 FireEye
 Tanium
 IronPort


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙