Position Title
SUPERVISORY LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12922668-AR-26-054 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 26, 2026 to Apr 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1, 2 and 3 applicants. What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
APPLICANTS MUST BE ABLE TO OBTAIN AN MINIMUM OF A SECRET CLEARANCE TO BE CONSIDERED ELIGIBLE. Do you currently possess a Secret or higher security clearance, OR ABLE TO OBTAIN a Secret Clearance?
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you Officer in the grades of O4 - O5?
 Yes. I am an Officer in the grades of O4 - O5.
 No. I am not Officer in the grades of O4 - O5.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all questions fully and to the best of your ability


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Experience, education, or training involving judgment and/or analytical ability in the logistics field. Experience using computer and automation systems. Work involves performing or supervising staff work in planning and coordinating logistical support activities to provide the money, manpower, material, facilities, and services needed to support a specified mission at the time and place they are needed.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-13: Do you possess at least 1-year specialized experience, education or training equivalent to at least the next lower grade level. Must have experience, education, or training which includes identifying activities involving logistical support operations. Experience integrating the actions of a variety of specialized support activities in order to develop a comprehensive logistics plan. Experience monitoring such functions as program planning, resource and fiscal management, training, manpower management, and/or automated data processing to meet the logistics plan. Experience identifying delays or problems and developing corrective actions. Experience in managing the function of the work to be performed. Experience which includes leading, directing and assigning work of personnel.
 Yes
 No


3.

Describe a complex situation you have faced as a supervisor that required you to utilize a variety of leadership skills. In your response, please detail how you planned and assigned the work, how you addressed a specific employee issue (such as a performance problem, a complaint, or a training need), and what the ultimate outcome was for the employee and your team.



4.

Provide an example of a time you were responsible for managing a multifaceted logistics operation, such as those involving property management, an Ammunition Supply Point, or a Central Issue Facility. Please describe the situation, the steps you took to plan, organize, and monitor the operation, and how you utilized logistics automation and policy knowledge to ensure accountability and mission success.



5.

Tell us about a time you were tasked with planning for a new and significant logistics requirement that departed from established practices, such as a new equipment fielding, a major mobilization/de-mobilization, or a Homeland Defense mission. How did you apply new concepts or developments to address the challenge, and what was your role in developing and issuing policies or guidance to support the new requirement?



6.

Describe your experience advising senior leadership on complex logistics and readiness issues. Give a specific example of a time you identified a critical support shortfall, analyzed the situation, and presented recommendations to a command-level staff. What was the issue, what was your recommendation, and how did your guidance influence the final decision and shape logistics policy or operations?



7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position,


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙