Position Title
Crime Victims Compensation Program Internship (Unpaid)
Agency
District of Columbia Courts
Announcement Number
CVC-26-13067331 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 25, 2026 to Oct 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Are you now, or have you ever been, a Federal employee, a District of Columbia Government employee, or a District of Columbia Courts employee?Answer to this question is required
 A. No
 B. Yes - DC Courts
 C. Yes - DC Government
 D. Yes - Federal Government


2.
If you answered yes to the above question, please enter the agency or organization, division, and dates of service. If you responded no, type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters)


3.
If you responded yes to the question above, please indicate your current pay: If you responded no, please type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters.)


4.

Does the DC Courts employ any member of your family?

Family is defined as: father, mother, grandfather, grandmother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or half sister.

 Yes
 No


5.
If you responded yes to the above question, please provide the name, relationship, and division. If you responded no, type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters.)


6.

Are you a retiree receiving a civilian Federal annuity?

(Note: If you are an annuitant, your salary or annuity may be reduced upon employment.)

 Yes
 No


7.
Have you accepted a buyout from a Federal agency within the past 5 years?
 Yes
 No
 Not applicable


8.
Are you eligible for employment in the United States (either a citizen of the United States, lawfully admitted for permanent residency, or authorized by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to work in the U.S.)?
 Yes
 No


9.
Within the past 5 years, have you been fired, or have you quit a job after being notified that you would be fired?Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


10.
If you answered yes to being fired within the last 5 years, explain here. If you answered no, type N/A. (Maximum length of 100 characters.)


11.
I hereby authorize the release of my adult criminal record revealing any convictions and forfeitures, and any criminal cases currently pending before the courts. Answer to this question is required
 Yes
 No


12.
May we contact your current employer for a reference?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Select the response that best describes your education and experience.


1.
Select the choice that best describes your academic classification.
 I have completed my freshman year.
 I have completed my sophomore year.
 I have completed my junior year.
 I have completed my senior year.
 I am a college graduate.
 I am in graduate school.
 I am in law school.
 None of the above.


2.
Which of the following best reflects your highest level of experience providing customer service?
 I have dealt with customers as a part of my non-academic experience on complex issues, and provided resolution to difficult problems.
 I have dealt with customers as a part of my non-academic experience on issues which were not complex, but still presented difficult problems to solve.
 I have dealt with customers as a part of my non-academic experience on routine issues involving solving simple problems on a repetitive basis.
 My customer service experience is limited to providing solutions within my academic environment.
 I have not had to provide customer service.


3.
Which of the following best characterizes your highest level of experience resolving complex problems for an administrative issue?
 I have identified a problem.
 I have identified a problem and its root cause.
 I have identified a problem, its root cause, and developed a solution.
 I have identified a problem, its root cause, and developed and implemented a solution that anticipated and avoided potential conflicts.
 None of the above.


4.
Which duties have you performed in a professional setting?
 A. Answering telephones
 B. Creating documents on a word processor
 C. Maintaining a filing system
 D. Creating a filing system
 E. Creating a database
 F. Maintaining an existing database
 G. Receiving/distributing mail
 H. Retrieving information from various sources
 I. Reviewing documents and forms for accuracy
 J. Assisting customers
 K. None of the above


5.
Which response best reflects your teamwork experience?
 I have some experience working in a team in a professional environment.
 I have extensive experience working in a team in a professional environment.
 I have some experience working in a team of students while in school.
 I have extensive experience working in a team of students while in school.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙