Position Title
Welder
Agency
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Announcement Number
CERG-26-12889881-DHA Opens in new window
Open Period
Feb 17, 2026 to Feb 24, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Welder XF-3703-11 position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the appropriate response based on your level of experience, education, and/or training, that you fully possess and that demonstrates your ability to perform Welder XF-3703-11 duties without more than normal supervision.

 I have the ability to perform the most difficult and complex Welder duties. I am skilled in applying welding standards to determine how various metals and alloys such as steel, aluminum, etc. react to different welding processes and techniques.; Performing precision welding involved in the fabrication, modification, repair, assembly, and installation of various types of metal and alloy parts, equipment, systems, and structures such as dredges, towboats, barges, tractors, cranes, derrick boats, draglines, quarter boats, buoys, buildings, etc.; developing or improvising methods, altering parts, and making repairs in the absence of technical guidelines. I am considered an expert and work with a high degree of independence.
 I have the ability to perform the full range of Welder duties. I am skilled in performing welder duties using electric, acetylene and/or inert gas shielded welding processes; planning, laying out work, positioning and clamping work, pre-heating metal, and maintaining temperature to prevent distortion; utlizing templates, jigs, blueprints and other guides to repair, modify or fabricate metal items for all types of equipment, including repair of light or intricately made mechanical parts. I work on my own initiative under general supervision subject to occasional inspection
 I have the ability to perform common tasks including constructing a wide range of welds from simple to moderate welding; determining disassemble or repair necessary and materials to be used; Working with light, heavy gauge and hardened metals, welding all the various types of weldable items assigned, using flat, vertical, horizontal, at overhead positions. utilizing templates, jigs, blueprints and other guides to repair, modify or fabricate metal items for all types of equipment, including repair of light or intricately made mechanical parts. I work under supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who reviews my work for completion.
 I have the ability to perform simple Welding duties including providing assistance to journey worker employees engaged in welding metals and alloys; assisting in the operation of a variety of manual/automated welding processes (e.g., torch processes, resistance, and laser net shaping) to assist in the welding of all types of commonly used metals, and alloys, of various sizes, shapes, and thicknesses; assisting in setting up machines and assembling parts to be welded following explicit verbal and/or written instructions. I work under close supervision of a work leader or journey-level employee who observes tasks in progress and upon completion to make sure they are properly performed.
 My training or experience is not reflected in the above statements, but I am willing to learn.


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙