Position Title
PROGRAM ANALYST (OMBUDSMAN) (RECENT GRADUATE)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADSSC-25-12776252-RG Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 04, 2025 to Aug 11, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate? (Veterans unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to four years after degree completion to apply).

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility.  If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, DD-214 (copy indicating character of service) or other proof of your service which includes character of service.

For more information, review USAJOBS Recent Graduate resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
9
11


2.
Would you accept a temporary appointment?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that best describes your level of experience or education:

 GS-07: I have 1 full year of graduate level education or superior academic achievement
 GS-07: I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-05) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled. Candidates for this position must clearly demonstrate in their resume that they possess specialized experience in: Assisting with direct customer service via telephone and electronic correspondence, including responding to inquiries, resolving issues, and processing requests related to voting assistance or government services; Entering, managing, and analyzing case data in a tracking or case management system to monitor service trends, document issue resolution, and support program reporting; and Assisting with analyzing election-related information, including reviewing and interpreting state-specific voting laws and procedures, and communicating program guidance clearly to internal and external audiences
 GS-07:I have a combination of both A and B, and when put together equate to 100% of the requirement.
 GS-09: I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related
 GS-09: I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-07) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled. Candidates for this position must clearly demonstrate in their resume that they possess specialized experience in: Providing direct customer service via telephone and electronic correspondence, including responding to complex inquiries, resolving issues, and processing requests related to voting assistance or government services; Entering, managing, and analyzing case data in a tracking or case management system to monitor service trends, document issue resolution, and support program reporting ; and Serving as a liaison or ombudsman, conducting research and coordinating with multiple stakeholders to resolve voting-related regulatory issues.
 GS-09: I have a combination of both D and E, and when put together equate to 100% of the requirement.
 GS-11: I have a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.M., if related
 GS-11: I have one year of experience in the same or similar work equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-09) requiring application of the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the position being filled. Candidates for this position must clearly demonstrate in their resume that they possess specialized experience in: Providing direct customer service via telephone and electronic correspondence, including responding to complex inquiries, resolving issues, and processing requests related to voting assistance or government services; Entering, managing, and analyzing case data in a tracking or case management system to monitor service trends, document issue resolution, and support program reporting ; Serving as a liaison or ombudsman, conducting research and coordinating with multiple stakeholders to resolve voting-related regulatory issues; Analyzing election-related information, including reviewing and interpreting state-specific voting laws and procedures, and communicating program guidance clearly to internal and external audiences; and Coordinating with interagency partners on program implementation, logistical support, and compliance with voting-related legislation such as Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA) or Nation Voter Registration Act (NVRA).
 I have a combination of both G and H, and when put together equate to 100% of the requirement.
 My experience is not reflected in any of the above statements.


2.
To be considered for a Recent Graduate appointment you must meet ONE of the following requirements. Mark the response that makes you eligible for this position:
 Complete all requirements for an associates, bachelors, masters, professional, doctorate, vocational, or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution within the previous two (2) years
 Veterans who, due to military service obligation, were precluded from applying to the Recent Graduate Program during any portion of the eligibility period described above shall have a full two-year period of eligibility upon release or discharge from active duty. This eligibility period cannot extend beyond 6 years from the date on which the individual completed the requirements of an academic course of study.
 I do not meet the requirements for a Recent Graduate appointment


3.
Choose the response that best reflects your experience with customer service.

 I have served as a customer service representative, providing assistance and resolution to oral and written inquiries concerning a variety of situations, challenges and problems.
 I have served as a customer service representative, forwarding inquiries to the appropriate department for resolution.
 I have served as a customer service representative (CSR), providing program assistance and resolution to oral and written inquiries concerning a variety of voting situations, challenges and problems.
 None of the above.


4.
Choose the response that best reflects your experience performing research to answer customer questions.

 I perform research for basic customer questions and forward more complex issues to senior CSRs.
 I research customer questions or problems and provide answers and resolutions to their inquiries.
 I perform basic research for those who deal directly with customer inquiries.
 None of the above.


5.
Please select the response that best describes your experience in performing analytical task(s).

 Analyzed data/information to develop practices, procedures, legislation, policies and or directives which included recommendations for exercise concepts.
 Analyzed data/information and recommended alternative approaches to existing practices, procedures, reports, policies and/or directives.
 Analyzed data/information to develop practices, procedures, reports, and policies and/or directives.
 Evaluated effectiveness of existing practices, procedures, policies and/or directives.
 Interpreted and applied existing guidelines to programmatic issues.
 None of the above.


6.
From the following responses, please select those that you have experience in conducting voting assistance (Select all that apply).

 A. Service voters telephonically and via electronic mail.
 B. Answer inquires and resolve problems via phone or in person.
 C. Entering voter inquiries/answers into a voting portal/database.
 D. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response).


7.
From the following list, please select those that you have served as an OMBUDSMAN/liaison providing program assistance and resolution to oral and written inquiries concerning a variety to situations, challenges, and problems (select all that apply).

 A. Civilian Agency
 B. Federal Government Agency/Department
 C. Military Branch/Activity
 D. None of the above (if selected, this should be your only answer).


8.
Do you have professional experience including volunteer work, with voting registration, assistance or surveys?

 Yes, I possess this experience and it is clearly outlined in my resume.
 No, I do not possess this experience.


9.
Choose the response that best reflects your experience with strategic communication.

 I participate in strategic planning to improve enterprise direction and focus.
 I serve on a special project team to strategically communication program requirements.
 I evaluate modifications to existing program plans in response to changing environments.
 None of the above.


10.
From the following list of communication skills, please identify those that you have routinely and successfully applied (Select all that apply).

 A. Facilitate the amicable resolution of competing or conflicting interests among parties whose cooperation is needed to meet an objective.
 B. Interact effectively in situations where frequent changes, delays, or unexpected events arise that cause major shifts in priorities, timetables, or work assignments.
 C. Provide guidance, persuade and/or inspire others to adopt new methods, procedures, or techniques to improve operations.
 D. Diffuse confrontational situations with people who are difficult, hostile, or distressed.
 E. Work cooperatively with others as a team to achieve a project or program goal.
 F. None of the above (If selected, this should be your only response)


11.
Do you have experience in dealing with senior civilian/military leadership at a Department of Defense Agency or Military Branch?

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙