Position Title
Supervisory Fish Biologist
Agency
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
Announcement Number
USFWS-26-13041504-IMP-RR Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 24, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)

To claim CTAP eligibility, please confirm:
You are a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) AND
You are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify CTAP eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation with your application to include:
Your agency notice, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice; AND
Your most recent annual performance appraisal rating of record; AND
Your most recent SF-50, or equivalent personnel action, noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement. For more information, visit the USAJOBS Help Center - Career Transition Programs (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL).

Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in The Department of the Interior (or one of the associated bureaus) with CTAP eligibility?
 Yes
 No


2.
Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee: 

Please select YES to this eligibility if you meet the criteria below: 

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment (tenure 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50) in the competitive service (position occupied is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50) and has never held the full performance level of the position being announced on a permanent basis?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24 of the SF-50); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34 of the SF-50).

Do you wish to be considered for appointment as a Competitive, Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


3.
Non-Competitive - Current, Permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Employee

Please select YES to this Eligibility if you meet the criteria below:

Are you a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee who currently holds a career or career conditional appointment in the competitive service AND has held a permanent (non-temporary) position at the same or higher full performance level as the position being announced?

To verify your eligibility, you MUST submit a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50 (SF-50) or equivalent personnel action form reflecting your permanent, competitive status with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.

Your latest SF-50 (or equivalent personnel action form) must reflect:
• Career or Career-conditional (Tenure field is 1 or 2 in block 24); AND,
• your status in the competitive service (Position Occupied field is 1 in block 34)

Do you wish to be considered as a non-competitive, current, permanent U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service employee?
 Yes
 No


4.
Land Management Workforce Flexibility Act (LMWFA)
To claim LMWFA eligibility, please confirm if you are a current or former employee of a land management agency (Forest Service; Bureau of Land Management; National Park Service; Fish and Wildlife Service; Bureau of Indian Affairs; or Bureau of Reclamation) who:
• was originally hired to a time-limited position under a competitive appointment; AND,
• served one or more time-limited appointments at a land management agency for a period totaling more than 24 months without a break in service of two or more years; AND,
• performed at an acceptable level of service during each period of service; AND,
• if no longer employed by the land management agency, have been separated for no more than two years, and for reasons other than misconduct or performance.

In order to receive consideration, you must submit documentation verifying eligibility. You must submit documentation showing all required periods of service (appointments, extensions, conversions, separations SF-50s) and documentation of acceptable performance (signed performance appraisal, signed memo from supervisor, SF-50 remark) for the 24-month period of time-limited appointments with a land management agency. Additional supporting documentation requirements are listed in the Required Documents section of this announcement.  Additional information can be found here, USAJOBS Help Center - Base facilities or land management agency. You are no longer eligible for this authority if you are currently serving on permanent appointment.

Are you a current or former employee of a Land Management Agency with LMWFA eligibility?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Alpena, MI
 B. Trenton, MI


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. Please note that your answers will be verified against the information you provided in your resume or application and information provided by your references.


Basic Qualification


1.
Select the response that most accurately describes how you satisfy the basic education requirement of positions in the 0482 Fish Biology occupational series.

 I possess a degree in biological science that included (a) at least 6 semester hours in aquatic subjects such as limnology, ichthyology, fishery biology, aquatic botany, aquatic fauna, oceanography, fish culture, or related courses in the field of fishery biology; AND (b) at least 12 semester hours in the animal sciences in such subjects as general zoology, vertebrate zoology, comparative anatomy, physiology, entomology, parasitology, ecology, cellular biology, genetics, or research in these fields. (Excess course work in aquatic subjects may be used to meet this requirement when appropriate.)
 I possess a combination of education and experience that included courses equivalent to a major in biological science (i.e., at least 30 semester hours), of which a minimum of 6 semester hours were in aquatic subjects and 12 semester hours were in the animal sciences, as shown in above, PLUS appropriate experience or additional education. This combination of education and experience is comparable to successful completion of a full 4-year course of study as described above.
 I do not possess the education described in A or B.


Minimum Qualification


2.
Select the response that most accurately describes how you satisfy the minimum qualification requirement of this position as a 0482 Fish Biologist at the GS-14 grade level.
 I possess at least one year of full-time specialized experience comparable in difficulty and responsibility to the next lower grade level (comparable to GS-13) in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience required is defined as performing the following duties: planning and leading fishery field operations; preparing and administering budgets; supervising a large staff and handling personnel matters; and developing and maintaining cooperative partnerships with a wide range of partners. NOTE: Your resume must contain sufficient information in these areas to be found qualified.
 I do not have the specialized experience described above.


2 Page Limit for Resume


3.
I understand that only the first 2 pages of my resume will be reviewed to determine my eligibility/qualifications and the first 2 pages contains the required information to qualify for the position.

 Yes
 No


Certification Statement


4.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙