Position Title
Internal Revenue Agent (Employment Tax Specialist)
Agency
Internal Revenue Service
Announcement Number
26-13055603P-SBN-0512-13 Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 16, 2026 to Sep 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
IRS CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus IRS employee and:
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


2.
Treasury CTAP Candidate - Are you a current displaced or surplus Department of Treasury (non-IRS) employee and:
 
you are located within the same local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES) AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your latest SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP)/Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 Yes
 No


3.
IRS Internal Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current career or career-conditional, Competitive Service Internal Revenue Service (IRS) employee? You can view a copy of your most recent SF-50 to determine if you are Competitive Service. (The "position occupied" block on the SF-50 should show a "1" and your "tenure" block should be a "1" or "2".)

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, submit a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal.
 Yes
 No


4.
IRS RPP Candidate (excluding Chief Counsel and Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA)) - Are you a current IRS employee who has received a Reassignment Preference Program (RPP) notice and:
 
you are located either within or outside the local commuting area of this vacancy, AND
your grade is equivalent to or below the grade level of this vacancy, AND
your position has the same or higher promotion potential and the same work schedule (e.g., permanent, seasonal, etc.) of this vacancy, AND
your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent?

If you indicate "Yes" for this question, you MUST submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of RPP eligibility such as a RPP notice AND a copy of your most recent annual performance appraisal AND a copy of your most recent SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action).

For more information, review IRS Internal Revenue Manual (IRM) 6.330.1.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 3 location(s).
 A. (CA6139) 4330 Watt Ave, Sacramento, CA
 B. (CA0316) 333 W Broadway, San Diego, CA
 C. (CA7588) 4643 Quail Lakes Drive, Stockton, CA
 D. (GA0087) 401 W Peachtree St, Atlanta, GA
 E. (IL0236) 230 S Dearborn Street, Chicago, IL
 F. (MO1937) 333 W. Pershing Road, Kansas City, MO
 G. (MO2008) 2850 NE Independence Ave, Lees Summit, MO
 H. (MO1993) 2937 S Claremont Ave, Springfield, MO
 I. (NV7516) 110 N City Parkway, Las Vegas, NV
 J. (NJ4571) 1 Kalisa Way, Paramus, NJ
 K. (NY0376) 1040 Waverly Avenue, Holtsville, NY
 L. (PA0745) Penn Office Bldg, Monroeville, PA
 M. (TX2835) 12309 N Mopac Expwy, Austin, TX
 N. (TX8031) – 711 N. Carancahua St. Corpus Christi, Corpus Christi, TX
 O. (TX3077) 5555 N Beach St. Fort Worth, Fort Worth, TX


2.
How many performance related awards, (including time off in lieu of monetary), or quality step increases have you received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement?

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.
 1
 2
 3 or more
 None


3.
Please list the names of any performance related awards and/or quality step increases you have received in the three years preceding the closing date of this announcement and the dates (MMDDYYYY) of the awards. (For example: Performance Award, 02/02/2019).

You may obtain a list of your most recent awards at https://persinfo.web.irs.gov/indexawd.htm.


4.
Your annual performance appraisal and relevant awards are considered in the selection process.

Please indicate the option that best describes your most recent performance appraisal.
 Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Revalidated Annual Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Departure Rating/Annual Performance Appraisal
 Merit Promotion Appraisal
 My most recent performance appraisal was not rated fully-successful, equivalent or higher
 Not ratable or I do not have a recent performance appraisal


5.
Please enter the date of your most recent performance appraisal.


6.
Please select the response that most accurately reflects your most recent performance appraisal or performance rating.
 Outstanding
 Exceeds Fully Successful
 Fully Successful
 Minimally Successful
 Unacceptable
 Not Ratable or I do not have a performance appraisal


7.
What is your Standard Employee Identifier (SEID)?


8.
If you are, or ever were a Federal civilian employee, please provide your current or last pay plan, series, and grade level or pay band. For example: GS-0303-05, IR-0343-02, WG-5400-04.


9.
What is your current position title?


10.
Have you attended any of Treasury's information sessions? (Please click all that apply)
 A. Navigating USAJOBS
 B. Writing Your Federal Resume
 C. Interviewing Techniques
 D. Early Career Programs (Students, Recent Graduates, Entry Level, Apprenticeship)
 E. None of the above


11.

To qualify for this position and receive full credit for your relevant experience you must include the following for each position:

Employer Name & Job Title,
Employment (MM/DD/YYYY) start and end date or present,
Number of hours worked per week
Brief description of duties that clearly demonstrate your qualifications.
Include pay plan, series, and grade (e.g., GS-0301-09) for all federal service jobs.

Do you understand that failure to provide sufficient evidence in your resume may result in a "not qualified" determination.

 Yes
 No


12.
For positions with an education requirement, or if you are qualifying for this position by substituting education or training for experience, are you aware that you must submit a copy of your transcripts or equivalent as specified in this announcement. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.

FOREIGN EDUCATION: You must show proof the education credentials have been deemed to be at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education program. It is your responsibility to provide such evidence when applying. We recommend choosing an evaluator from a member organization of one of the following national associations of credential evaluation services: National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or Association of International Credentials Evaluators (AICE).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

BASIC REQUIREMENTS All GRADES (ALSO MEETS GRADE 5 QUALIFICATIONS):
A Certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or a bachelor's or higher degree in accounting that included at least 30 semester hours in accounting or 24 semester hours in accounting and an additional 6 semester hours in related subjects such as business law, economics, statistical/quantitative methods, computerized accounting or financial systems, financial management, or finance.
OR
A bachelor's or higher degree in a field other than accounting or a combination of education and experience equivalent to 4 years that included at least 30 semester hours in accounting or 24 semester hours in accounting and 6 semester hours in related subjects as described above.

AND
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE: 
In addition to meeting the basic requirement, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience must have been in progressively responsible and diversified professional accounting or auditing work that required 1) knowledge of and skill in applying professional accounting principles, theory, and practices to analyze and interpret accounting books, records, or systems specifically to determine their effect on Federal tax liabilities and their adequacy for recording transactions affecting tax liabilities; 2) skill in interpreting and applying Federal tax law for individuals, business, and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations; 3) knowledge of business and trade practices to develop tax issues based on analysis and evaluation of overall business operations and financial condition; 4) knowledge of corporate financial transactions and financial management principles and practices; and 5) skill in interacting effectively with a broad range of individuals and in negotiating with specialists in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions.

In addition to the above your specialized experience for this position must include:
Applying tax laws, regulations, precedents and policies relating to employment taxes in order to perform employment tax examinations
Applying professional auditing and accounting experience to business organizations that contain several related entities or subdivisions,
Applying varied systems of accounting to perform examinations.


Thank you for your interest in applying for this position. Your responses to the following questions supplement the information provided in your resume.


1.
Which is true about your Basic Qualifications?
 I have a degree from an accredited college or university that included the required number of accounting credits as mentioned above or the equivalent combination of education and experience.
 I have a Certificate as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) obtained through written examination in a State, territory or the District of Columbia.
 I have a combination of education and experience equivalent to that described above.
 None of the above.


2.
SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
In addition to meeting the basic requirement, you must have 1 year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service. Qualifying experience must have been in progressively responsible and diversified professional accounting or auditing work that required 1) knowledge of and skill in applying professional accounting principles, theory, and practices to analyze and interpret accounting books, records, or systems specifically to determine their effect on Federal tax liabilities and their adequacy for recording transactions affecting tax liabilities; 2) skill in interpreting and applying Federal tax law for individuals, business, and/or exempt organizations, partnerships, and corporations; 3) knowledge of business and trade practices to develop tax issues based on analysis and evaluation of overall business operations and financial condition; 4) knowledge of corporate financial transactions and financial management principles and practices; and 5) skill in interacting effectively with a broad range of individuals and in negotiating with specialists in accounting, legal, tax, and other similar business-related professions.

Which of the following is true about your specialized experience?
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience as described above
 I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described above


3.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service applying tax laws, regulations, precedents and policies relating to employment taxes in order to perform employment tax examinations?

 Yes
 No


4.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service applying professional auditing and accounting experience to business organizations that contain several related entities or subdivisions?

 Yes
 No


5.
Do you have one (1) year of specialized experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-12 grade level in the Federal service applying varied systems of accounting to perform examinations?

 Yes
 No


6.
Please check all of the following which relate to your workplace engagement experience(s) working Employment Tax issues.

 A. Acted as Group Manager for 60 days or more
 B. Served as a Formal On-the-Job Instructor (coach)
 C. Served as classroom Internal Revenue Agent (IRA) Instructor
 D. Served on a task force, detail assignment, or special project (e.g., Internal Revenue Manuel (IRM) changes, Issue Management System, User Acceptance Testing (IMS UAT)Tester, Continuing Professional Education (CPE) committee)
 E. Served as a Subject Matter Expert (e.g., IMS; Specialty Employment Tax Application (SETA), Whistleblower)
 F. Conducted a technical presentation at Continuing Professional Education (CPE)
 G. Participated in a cross-functional team with other business operating divisions (e.g., Field Examination, Collection, Appeals)
 H. Developed and presented a technical topic inside and outside the workgroup.
 I. Coordinated research of case development with other groups or business units (e.g., Specialist Referral System (SR, Consultations, Counsel litigation detail)
 J. Civil fraud assessment involving a restitution case.
 K. Grand jury case
 L. None of the above


7.
Which of the duties have you performed pertaining specifically to Employment Tax? Select all that apply.

 A. Served as an expert witness
 B. Served as a cooperating agent
 C. Provided outreach to industry representatives and other internal/external stakeholders on Employment Tax issues
 D. Participated in a Large Business & International (LB&I) audit team
 E. Participated in a Classification Detail
 F. Worked on a team writing Internal Revenue Manuals (IRM) or training materials for Internal Revenue Agents/Employment Tax Specialists.
 G. Served as an Employment Tax Revenue Agent Quality Reviewer.
 H. Worked on Abusive Transaction Projects(e.g., capital leasing, offshore employee leasing, offshore credit cards wages, employee wellness plans)
 I. Prepared a rebuttal to a protest letter.
 J. Worked on IRC 7436 issues, including the analysis of Section 530 Relief requirements.
 K. Prepared employment Tax Examination reports addressing both IRC § 7436 and non-IRC § 7436 issues, including Form 886-A, Explanation of Items, for both agreed and unagreed issues.
 L. Prepared audit workpapers to present and support proposed adjustments to the taxpayer and/or representative.
 M. None of the above


8.
Which of the following Employment Tax issues or cases have you developed and examined? Select all that applies.

 A. A fraud case for referral to Criminal Investigation
 B. Information return penalties
 C. Cash payroll or structuring
 D. Debit card payments
 E. Fringe Benefits
 F. Officer Compensation and/or Executive Compensation
 G. Accountable vs nonaccountable plans (e.g., auto, travel)
 H. Backup withholding
 I. Independent Contractor vs. Employee
 J. International Employment Tax Issues
 K. Underreported Tips
 L. Combined Annual Wage Report (CAWR)
 M. COVID Credits: Sick and Family Leave Credit (SFLC) or Employee Retention Credit (ERC)
 N. Claims and/or Audit Reconsiderations
 O. None of the above


9.
Which of the following experiences do you have with auditing Employment Tax issues? Select all that applies.

 A. Audited the payroll of a Certified Professional Employer Organization (CPEO) or Third Party Payers.
 B. Audit or review the records of a taxpayer utilizing a Point of Sale (POS) systems
 C. Audited or reviewed the records of a taxpayer utilizing an electronic system (e.g., QuickBooks, Peachtree).
 D. Audited the payroll of a taxpayer by conducting third-party interviews
 E. Worked on a case involving International issues (e.g., Offshore withholding compliance, tax treaties)
 F. Structuring of payroll transactions (e.g., cash payroll not reported, additional wages)
 G. Worked a Whistleblower Claim case
 H. Issued summons to taxpayers or third parties when necessary
 I. None of the above


10.
Which of the following sources have you utilized in an Employment Tax examination for guidance in the development of an issue(s)? Select all that apply.

 A. Internal Revenue Code (IRC)/ Treasury Regulations
 B. Revenue Procedures & Rulings
 C. Court Cases
 D. Technical Advise Memorandum (TAM)
 E. Private Letter Ruling (PLR)
 F. Chief Counsel Memorandum (CCM)
 G. General Counsel Memorandum (GCM)
 H. Audit Technique Guides
 I. None of the above


11.
What outcomes have resulted from interactions with customers (internal and external)? Select all the apply.

 A. Received written positive recognition or feedback from individual taxpayers and/or their representatives
 B. Received written positive recognition or feedback from internal customers (e.g., Criminal Investigation, National Office, Appeals, District Counsel)
 C. Received written positive recognition or feedback from other government agencies (e.g., Department of Justice, US Attorney, State officials)
 D. None of the above


12.
Which of the following describes your experience in auditing accounting systems? Select all that apply.

 A. Analyzed books and records with the assistance of a Computer Audit Specialist
 B. Audited a company that has several divisions or tiers (e.g., consolidated company with many subsidiaries)
 C. Examined employment tax issues with a specialized industry guide (e.g., car dealers, railroads, restaurants)
 D. Examined and audited the payroll of a taxpayer utilizing third-party payors or common paymasters
 E. Audited a company that has advanced accounting systems (e.g., Solomon, Oracle, Peoplesoft)
 F. None of the above


13.
Please select all of the following which describe your experience with applying Employment Tax law where a legal precedent was not clearly defined.

 A. Developed an issue that has been litigated in court proceedings.
 B. Coordinated with National Office Counsel.
 C. Requested Local Counsel guidance.
 D. Fast Track Mediation or Settlement.
 E. None of the above


14.
Which of the following Employment Tax experience(s) have you had? Select all that apply.

 A. Served as national or cross-divisional project coordinator
 B. Served as a team lead for an Employment Tax project
 C. Responsible for initiating Compliance Initiative project (CIP)
 D. Responsible for preparing a Preparer Actions Case (PAC)
 E. None of the above


15.
Which of the following research tools have you used to resolve tax issues? Select all that apply.

 A. Internal Revenue Code (IRC)/Treasury Regulations
 B. Internal Guidelines/Internal Revenue Manual (IRM)
 C. Westlaw, Bloomberg, Accurint, or other similar tools
 D. Management Portal/Employment Tax Knowledge Base
 E. Audit Technique Guides
 F. Subject Matter Experts/Leads
 G. Financial Crime Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
 H. YK1 Link Analysis or Interactive visualization tool/software for analysis of business structures and relationships.
 I. Compliance Data Warehouse Knowledge Graph Environment (CKGE)
 J. Integrated Data Retrieval System (IDRS)
 K. Account Management System (AMS)
 L. None of the above


16.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate and accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration. I understand that any false statements or attempts to conceal information may be grounds for not hiring me, or firing me after I begin work. I also understand that false or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙