Position Title
Personnel Security Specialist
Agency
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Announcement Number
OCSO-PATH-13028949-MB Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 13, 2026 to Aug 19, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Pathways Recent Graduate - Are you a recent graduate who has completed, within the previous two years, a qualifying career or technical education program (which may include Registered Apprenticeship Programs, Job Corps, Climate Corps, AmeriCorps, and Peace Corps); associate's, bachelor's, master's, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution? (Veterans' preference eligibles unable to apply within two years of receiving their degree due to military service obligation have up to six years after degree completion to apply).

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts.  

Unofficial transcripts will be accepted that includes the following:
Your name
Name of the educational institution
Declared degree program
Date of degree conferral
Course title(s), credits completed, grade received, and date of completion
Grade Point Average (GPA)
For more information, review Recent Graduates
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
When Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) completes its hiring, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions. You may choose to opt-in to having your information shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies when applying for this position. If an agency requests a list of applicants referred for selection consideration (i.e., certificate), and you are on that list, you will be notified. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.

Do you provide your consent to having your name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions?

 I consent to having my name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 I only want to be considered by CISA. I opt-out of having my name, application material, and assessment results shared with other DHS components and/or federal agencies.


3.
For qualification determinations and to receive full consideration for relevant experience, your resume must contain complete information and support your question responses. Be clear and specific when describing your work history since human resources cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.

Your resume MUST not exceed 2-pages in length and include the following:
Full Legal Name
Phone Number
Email Address
Work history (which includes Job Titles and Employer)
Detailed description of your job-related qualifications (including tasks performed)
Start and end dates of employment with the month and year (e.g., MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to Present)
Total hours worked per week for each job listed.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, your resume MUST also include the following for all Federal positions you have held:
Pay Plan/Band (e.g., GS, WG, etc.)
Occupational series (e.g., 201, 301, 2210, etc.)
Grade level (e.g., 5, 9, 13, etc.)
For military service, your resume MUST also include your rank and/or pay grade (e.g., O-03 (Captain/Lieutenant), E-5 (Sergeant/Petty Officer Second Class), etc.).

If the pay plan/band, occupational series, grade level, and/or rank/pay grade are not provided, it may result in an ineligible determination.

Do NOT include the following types of information in your resume:
Photographs
Social media links (e.g., LinkedIn)
Personal information, such as date of birth, social security number (SSN), gender, religious affiliation, etc.
Classified or government sensitive information
Inappropriate material or content
If your resume contains prohibited information as listed above, it will result in an ineligible determination, and you WILL NOT receive consideration for this position.

Do you verify that your resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, includes all required information, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above?
 Yes, I verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above.
 No, I am not willing to verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, or may contain prohibited information as listed above. I understand my application may be deemed insufficient and I may not receive consideration for this position. I further understand that if my resume contains any prohibited information, it will result in my removal from consideration for this position.


4.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees.

In the last five years (from the closing date of this vacancy announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political appointee, Political Schedule A, Schedule C (confidential or policy-determining), or Non-Career or Limited appointee in the Senior Executive System (SES)? If yes, please provide appropriate documentation in your application package to provide proof of your current or most recent political appointment.


 Yes, I have held a political appointment within the last five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political appointment within the last five years.


5.
From the descriptions below, select the one statement that best describes your eligibility for the Pathways Recent Graduates Program.

If eligible, submit a copy of your transcripts to support your recent graduate eligibility. If you are a veteran, please submit a copy of your latest DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (member copy 4 or equivalent).

For more information, review Student and Recent Graduate resources.
 I have completed, within the previous two (2) years, all educational requirements for a qualifying associate, bachelor's, master’s, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.
 I am a veteran preference eligible, who due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the Pathways Recent Graduates Program during any portion of the 2-year eligibility period. I have been released or discharged from active duty within the previous two (2) years or it has not been more than six (6) years from the date I completed all educational requirements for a qualifying associate, bachelor's, master’s, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.
 I expect to complete, within nine (9) months from the date of my application, all educational requirements for a qualifying associate, bachelor's, master’s, professional, doctorate, vocational or technical degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.
 My eligibility for the Pathways Recent Graduates Program is not reflected in the statements above and I am not eligible for this position.


6.
Please select the level of education you have completed or intend to complete within nine (9) months from the date of application. (Select all that apply)

This position requires proof of education. You must submit a copy of your transcripts and/or certification. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted that includes your name, the name of the educational institution, course title(s), number of credits, grade, and date of completion. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 A. Associate's degree
 B. Bachelor’s degree
 C. Bachelor’s degree with Superior Academic Achievement
 D. 1 full year of graduate level education
 E. Master’s degree
 F. Ph.D. or Doctorate degree
 G. LL.B. (Bachelor of Laws) or J.D. (Juris Doctor) degree
 H. LL.M. (Master of Laws) degree
 I. Professional registration or licensure
 J. Vocational or Technical degree
 K. Certification
 L. None of the Above


7.
Please indicate the graduation date or expected graduation date for your degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.


8.
If you are a Federal civilian employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, Competitive Service
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Competitive Service
 Career Appointment, Excepted Service
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted Service
 Term Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed more than 1 year, but not more than 4 years)
 Temporary Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Pathways Program (Internship or Recent Graduates)
 Other
 Not Applicable


9.
If you are a current or former federal civilian employee, enter the pay plan/band and grade level of the highest graded position you have held (for example: GS-09, WG-04). If you have not held a federal position, enter "N/A" (Not Applicable).


10.
Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee with reinstatement eligibility?
 Yes
 No


11.
Have you accepted a buyout, (i.e., Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)) from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? If yes, and you are selected for this position, you must repay the entire (pre-tax) amount of the incentive to the agency which paid the buyout before your first day of work in the new position.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you receiving a Federal civilian retirement annuity? If yes, and you are selected for this position, your salary may be reduced by the gross amount of the Federal annuity paid during the period of reemployment.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in this Personnel Security Specialist GS-0080-09/11 position with the Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). Your resume, supporting documentation, and the response you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are amongst the best qualified for this position. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. Your responses are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you will be rated ineligible. If you fail to provide the required documentation, or the documentation submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for this position.


1.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-09 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for a Personnel Security Specialist at the GS-09 grade level.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sector). Experience includes performing all of the following duties: (1) Preparing, reviewing, tracking, and signing correspondence necessary for completing personnel security tasks; (2) Applying quality assurance practices in support of personnel security vetting requirements; AND (3) Applying security principles while communicating security concerns to senior leadership, congressional Staff, contractors, and applicants.
 I have a Masters or an equivalent graduate degree or successfully completed two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a masters degree or equivalent graduate degree. (Note: you must submit your college transcripts to support your educational claims)
 I have a combination of experience and education.  I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described in statement A above and I have at least one (1) year of graduate education leading to a master’s or equivalent graduate degree as described in statement B above. Only graduate education beyond the first year (determined by the institution) or 18 semester hours or 27 quarter hours is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement. (NOTE: To be qualified for this position, the contents of your resume must fully support this statement, and you must submit a legible copy of your unofficial transcript(s) to support your educational claims.)
 I have the experience as described in statement A above AND the education described in statement B above. (NOTE: To be qualified for this position, the contents of your resume must fully support this statement, and you must submit a legible copy of your unofficial transcript(s) to support your educational claims).
 I do not meet or exceed the experience and/or education in the statements above, and therefore I do not qualify for this position at the GS-09 grade level.


1a.
If you selected statement A,C, or D above, please indicate the position(s) (i.e., job title & start and end dates of employment) listed on your resume that reflects this type of experience. If you selected statement E above, please enter "N/A" or "Not Applicable".


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR GS-11 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the experience and/or education that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for a Personnel Security Specialist at the GS-11 grade level.
 I have at least one (1) year of specialized experience comparable in scope and responsibility to the GS-09 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sector). Experience includes performing all of the following duties: (1) Developing and delivering briefings, project papers, reports, and correspondence to managers, employees and applicants to convey findings and recommendations; (2) Managing personnel security vetting program position descriptions and contracts to determine the level of security access required for the incumbent; AND (3) Tracking assigned subdivision tasks, to include program review schedules, contract invoice payments, monthly, quarterly, and annual performance metrics.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D or equivalent doctoral degree or 3 full years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to such a degree. (Note: You must attach a copy of your transcripts.)
 I have a combination of experience and education. I have less than one (1) year of specialized experience as described in statement A above and I have at least two (2) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree as described in statement B above. Only graduate education beyond the second year (determined by the institution) or 36 semester hours or 54 quarter hours is creditable toward meeting the specialized experience requirement.  (NOTE: To be qualified for this position, the contents of your resume must fully support this statement, and you must submit a legible copy of your unofficial transcript(s) to support your educational claims.)
 I have the experience as described in statement A above AND the education described in statement B above. (NOTE: To be qualified for this position, the contents of your resume must fully support this statement, and you must submit a legible copy of your unofficial transcript(s) to support your educational claims).
 I do not meet or exceed the experience and/or education in the statements above, and therefore I do not qualify for this position at the GS-11 grade level.


2a.
If you selected statement A, C, or D above, please indicate the position(s) (i.e., job title & start and end dates of employment) listed on your resume that reflects this type of experience. If you selected statement E above, please enter "N/A" or "Not Applicable".


3.
INTEGRITY CERTIFICATION
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in me not being considered for this position.
 Yes, I certify the accuracy of my application, and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify the accuracy of my application and/or I no longer wish to continue with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙