Position Title
Supervisory CBP Officer (2nd Line - POE)
Agency
Customs and Border Protection
Announcement Number
OFO-IMP(ROB)-13040166-LBF Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 28, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
The following set of questions focus on how you are eligible to apply for this announcement. Eligibilities are known as the specific hiring authorities that allow you to be considered for this announcement. Applicants will only be considered for eligibilities for which they claim during the online application and provide documentation displaying their eligibility for the hiring authority. Please see the required documents section of this announcement for documentation information. For more information regarding what hiring authorities you may be eligible for, please see the following link https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/

Note, the Promotion Potential question applies to current or former Federal employees only. If you are not a current or former Federal employee, select No. Selecting No or answering this question incorrectly will not remove you from consideration. However, if you only claim the promotion potential eligibility, you will not receive further consideration for this position.


1.
All applicants who are NOT CURRENTLY in the 1895 series must have been in the series within the last five years to be eligible for this announcement.  Do you meet one of the statements below?
I am currently in the 1895 series
I am NOT currently in the 1895 series, however, I have been in the 1895 series within the last five (5) years.
To verify eligibility, CBP employees are strongly encouraged to provide a copy of the SF-50(s) to support the eligibility above.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee (CBP) employee who received notice that you are a surplus employee or will be displaced from CBP?  If yes, confirm you meet CTAP eligibility outlined below during the open period of this job announcement:
You occupy a position located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you will be separated; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you will be separated; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation to validate your claim of CTAP eligibility, such as:
Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice, AND
Copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50, AND
Documentation of a successful performance review
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current U.S. Customs and Border Protection employee in a permanent competitive service position?  To determine your permanent competitive service status, refer to the Tenure and Position Occupied fields of your most current SF-50 as referenced below.  

To support your response, it is recommended that you submit a copy of your most recent Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 reflecting that you currently hold a permanent competitive service position:
Tenure:  Career or career-conditional (1 or 2 in block 24)
Position Occupied:  Competitive service (1 in block 34)
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location. You may only select up to 5 location(s).
 A. Calexico, CA
 AB. Los Angeles, CA
 AE. Otay, CA
 AF. San Francisco, CA
 AG. San Ysidro, CA
 AH. Denver, CO
 AI. Cape Canaveral, FL
 AJ. Fort Lauderdale, FL
 AK. Miami, FL
 AL. Orlando, FL
 AM. West Palm Beach, FL
 AN. Atlanta, GA
 AO. Honolulu, HI
 AP. Eastport, ID
 AQ. Chicago, IL
 AR. Hebron, KY
 AS. New Orleans, LA
 AT. Baltimore, MD
 AU. International Falls, MN
 AV. Minneapolis, MN
 AW. Woodson Terrace, MO
 AX. Sweet Grass, MT
 AY. Las Vegas, NV
 AZ. Columbus, NM
 BA. Santa Teresa, NM
 BB. Alexandria Bay, NY
 B. Buffalo, NY
 C. Champlain, NY
 D. Massena, NY
 E. Ogdensburg, NY
 F. Trout River, NY
 G. Portal, ND
 H. Middleburg Heights, OH
 I. Philadelphia, PA
 J. Tinicum, PA
 K. Brownsville, TX
 L. Dallas, TX
 M. Del Rio, TX
 N. Eagle Pass, TX
 O. El Paso, TX
 P. Galveston, TX
 Q. Hidalgo, TX
 R. Houston, TX
 S. Laredo, TX
 T. Presidio, TX
 U. Progreso, TX
 V. Rio Grande City, TX
 W. Roma, TX
 X. Tornillo, TX
 Y. Dulles Airport, VA
 Z. Norfolk, VA
 AA. Blaine, WA
 AC. Seattle, WA
 AD. Sumas, WA


2.
Are you a current political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee or a former political Schedule A or Schedule C Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code or are you a current non-career Senior Executive Service (SES) Executive Branch employee or a former non-career SES Executive Branch employee who held the position within the last five years applying to a competitive or non-political excepted service position under Title 5 of the United States Code?

To verify, please submit a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF-50) or other relevant documentation reflecting your status as a Political Appointee.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position requires the ability to operate a Government Owned Vehicle. Do you have a valid, non-restricted driver's license or will you be able to obtain a valid, non-restricted driver's license before the time of appointment?
 Yes
 No


4.
Have you engaged in sexual abuse in a prison, jail, holding facility, community confinement facility, juvenile facility, or other institution as defined in 42 U.S.C. § 1997?
 Yes
 No


5.
Have you been convicted of engaging or attempting to engage in sexual activity facilitated by force, overt or implied threats of force, or coercion, or where the victim did not consent or was unable to consent or refuse, or have you been civilly or administratively adjudicated to have engaged in such activity?
 Yes
 No


6.
If you are a CBP employee, please enter your CBP email address in this format without any extra spaces or characters: john.a.smith@cbp.dhs.gov. If you are not a CBP employee, enter N/A.


7.
If you are a CBP Employee, please enter your Hash ID without any additional spaces, punctuation, or letters. Example: CIC1K4L. If you are not a CBP employee, enter NA.


8.
All newly appointed, second level supervisors (managers) are required to complete the mandatory leadership training. The Office of Training and Development will schedule eligible supervisors (managers) to attend this training within the first 90 days of appointment. All newly appointed, second level supervisors shall attain the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to successfully perform their supervisory responsibilities by completing required leadership training in accordance with agency policy.

NOTE: This training may be waived if previously completed.

Do you acknowledge that you have read and understand the above requirement, including current or former second level supervisors who have previously completed the mandatory training and will not be required to retake the course?
 Yes
 No


9.
I have read and understand the following statement: You will be considered for the highest grade level for which you qualify for. Eligibility will be verified based on your resume and transcripts. You must have gained the work experience by the closing date of this announcement. Full-time work experience is 35 or more hours worked per week and must be clearly stated on your resume. Qualifications based on work experience will be determined by what is listed on your resume. Work experience refers to both paid and unpaid experience, such as volunteer work.
The most current version of the Document Type labeled "resume" is the only document that will be considered and it is your responsibility to tailor your resume to explicitly detail how your experience fulfills the general/specialized experience requirements outlined in this job announcement otherwise you could be found not qualified.
Your resume must include the following:
Be in English
Be two pages or less in length
Include full legal name
Phone number
Complete work history (which includes job titles)
Detailed description of your duties (including tasks performed)
The dates you performed those duties (MM/DD/YY - MM/DD/YY)
Hours worked per week for any position you worked that was not full time (less than 35 hours per week)
For Federal employment experience, your resume must also include:
Series
Grade level(s)
Salary
*Note- It is recommended that you upload your resume as a PDF instead of a Word document to ensure document quality. Ensure that your uploaded resume is not a password protected document, to include Office 365 passwords.

Do you agree to provide a resume that contains the necessary requirements listed in the instructions above?
 A. Yes
 B. No, I understand that not providing the required details in my resume may impact my referral for further consideration.


10.
Have you served or are you currently serving as a permanent GS-13 or higher with Customs and Border Protection?
 Yes
 No


11.
Conviction under Federal, State, or Tribal Court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or child is disqualifying. An intimate partner means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person. Have you ever been convicted of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence against an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you the subject of any Federal, State, or Tribal court-ordered restraining (protection) order for domestic abuse, including harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner or a child?
 Yes
 No


13.
If selected for this position, you must successfully complete a multi-week training at a designated training facility as outlined in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Failure to successfully complete the required training course(s) in accordance with the standards and policies of Customs and Border Protection will be grounds for removal from the position. Such failure will result in either reassignment to a former or different position, demotion, or separation by appropriate procedures.

If you have previously attended this training, the requirement may be waived. If you answer "no" to the training agreement acknowledgment question below, you will be removed from further consideration for this position.

Do you acknowledge the training requirement and agree to the terms outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above?
 Yes, I confirm that I understand and agree to the term as outlined in the job opportunity announcement and above.
 No, I do not agree to the training requirement terms and understand that I will be removed from further consideration for this position.


14.
When U.S. Customs and Border Protection completes their selections, the remaining list of qualified candidates may be shared with hiring managers and Human Resources specialists at additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions. Please opt-in here if you would like your name, application material, and assessment results shared with additional agencies. There is no guarantee of further consideration, and you can continue to explore other job opportunity announcements.
 A. I consent to having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with other agencies. I opt-in to having this information shared with additional agencies who are hiring for similar positions.
 B. I only want to be considered by this agency. I opt-out of having my name, application materials, and assessment results shared with additional agencies.


15.
This position meets the definition of secondary CBPO enhanced retirement coverage under the laws and regulations defined in 5 U.S.C. 8331 (31), Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) and General Provisions for Customs and Border Protection Officers defined in 5 U.S.C. 8401(36), Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS). The criterion is that knowledge, skill and ability in a position deemed to meet primary CBPO special retirement coverage is a mandatory prerequisite to satisfactorily perform the major duties and responsibilities of this job. The conditions for coverage of a secondary position are contained in 5 C.F.R. § 831.1604 for CSRS and 5 C.F.R. § 842.1003 for FERS. As defined in 5 C.F.R. § 831.1602 CSRS and 5 CFR 842.1002 FERS, to be eligible for this secondary administrative CBP Officer Special Enhanced Retirement covered position you must have permanently served in a primary CBP Officer Special Enhanced Retirement System covered position, e.g. Customs Inspector, GS-1890; Immigration Inspector, GS-1816; Canine Enforcement Officer, GS-1801; or CBP Officer, GS-1895.

Do you meet the requirements for a secondary administrative CBP Officer position listed above?
 Yes
 No, I understand that by not meeting this requirement that I will be removed from further consideration.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙