Position Title
General Engineer/ Construction Project Manager
Agency
U.S. Coast Guard
Announcement Number
26-12943168-WE-CE-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 29, 2026 to May 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from a position in a Federal agency other than the agency hiring for this position? If yes, confirm:
• you are located in the same local commuting area of the vacancy; AND,
• you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND,
• your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or the equivalent.

For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.

To verify your eligibility, you must submit supporting documentation such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form 50.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
YOUR RESPONSE TO THE FOLLOWING BASIC QUALIFICATION QUESTION(S) MUST BE SUPPORTED IN YOUR RESUME. FAILURE TO SUPPORT YOUR ANSWER(S) IN YOUR RESUME MAY IMPACT YOU OR ELIMINATE YOU FROM CONSIDERATION.


For the statements below, please select the response that best describes your experience and/or education. Select only one answer.


1.
We need to determine if you possess the basic educational background needed to qualify for this position. From the descriptions below, choose the statement that BEST describes your education relevant to this position.

 I have completed a bachelor's or higher degree in engineering from an ABET (Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology) accredited school or that included courses in differential and integral calculus and courses in 5 of the following 7 areas:(a)statics, dynamics;(b)strength of materials;(c)fluid mechanics, hydraulics;(d)thermodynamics;(e)electrical fields and circuits;(f)nature and properties of materials; and (g)any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics.
 I have successfully passed the Fundamentals of Engineering Exam and/or the Professional Engineering Exam, or the written test required for professional registration that is administered by the Boards of Engineering Examiners, and completed all the requirements for either (a) a bachelor's degree in engineering technology (BET) from an accredited college or university that included at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, or (b) a BET from an ABET-accredited program.
 I am registered as a professional engineer by a state, the District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I have a combination of at least 4 years of college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that included successful completion of at least 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences, including the courses listed in the first paragraph above. (NOTE: The courses must be fully acceptable toward meeting the requirements of a professional engineering curriculum.)
 I have successfully completed a curriculum leading to a bachelor's degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field (e.g., physics, chemistry, architecture, computer science, mathematics, hydrology, or geology) AND have at least 1 year of professional engineering experience under the guidance and supervision of a professional engineer.
 My background does not match the above choices.


2.
GS-12 In addition to meeting the Basic Education Requirement, applicants must possess professional experience. Select the statement that best describes your experience in order to meet the minimum qualification requirements for the position of, GS-0801-12, General Engineer, Construction Project Manager.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the Federal service. Examples of specialized experience include: Planning specific objectives, milestones, and phases for complex engineering projects; Performing facility asset management; developing project priorities and programming strategies; Providing technical guidance to contractor counterparts; conducting site visits; Planning and executing logistics responsibilities; or planning and conducting interdisciplinary studies and investigations.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, that my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 CFR part 731), or I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001), I understand that any information I give may be investigated.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith.


4.
I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position. I understand that evidence of copying and pasting directly from the vacancy announcement without clearly documenting supplemental information to describe my experience will result in an ineligible rating, and I will not receive further consideration.

 Yes, I certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify that my resume includes detailed information as it relates to the responsibilities and specialized experience for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙