Position Title
Program Analyst (College Graduate)
Agency
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Congressional Affairs
Announcement Number
CCLQ-12955488-26-SMF Opens in new window
Open Period
May 07, 2026 to May 15, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.

Are you a recent graduate of a qualifying educational institution who:

(1) has received a baccalaureate or graduate degree from an institution of higher education;
(2) applies for the position-
     (A) not later than 2 years after the date on which the individual being appointed received the degree described in paragraph (1); or
     (B) in the case of an individual who has completed a period of not less than 4 years of obligated service in a uniformed service, not later than 2 years after the date of the discharge or release of the individual from that service; and
(3) meets each minimum qualification standard prescribed by the Director for the position to which the individual is being appointed.

Appointment under this authority is not subject to Veteran's preference requirements.

To verify your eligibility, you must provide documentation that demonstrates you meet the requirements outlined in 5 USC 3115: Expedited hiring authority for college graduates; competitive service (house.gov)

Education - a copy of your latest transcript; statement from the institution's registrar, dean, or other appropriate official; or equivalent documentation.
Employment/Volunteerism - a copy of your Standard Form 50, letter from employer, non-profit agency, etc.
Military Service - a copy of your DD 214 which includes your character of service and service dates.
 Yes
 No


3.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
9
11


2.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).



Your resume must include the following information for each job listed:

Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible)
Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008)
Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week)
Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held
Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail.

Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications. Do not include a photograph or video of yourself, or any sensitive information (age, date of birth, marital status, protected health information, religious affiliation, social security number, etc.) on your resume or cover letter. We will not access web pages or encrypted, and digitally signed documents linked on your resume or cover letter to determine your qualifications.



3.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
The College Graduate Hiring Authority offers developmental opportunities in the Federal Government intended to promote possible careers in the civil service to recent graduates who have completed, within the previous two years, a bachelor's or graduate degree OR Veterans who have completed a bachelor's or graduate degree and were unable to apply within two years of obtaining their degree due to a uniformed service obligation of at least 4 years, may apply within two years of their discharge from uniformed service.


1.
Please indicate which of the following best describes your eligibility as a Recent College Graduate.
 I have completed, within the previous two (2) years, all educational requirements for a bachelor's or graduate degree.
 I am a veteran who, due to a military service obligation, was precluded from applying to the College Graduate Hiring Authority during a portion of the two (2) year eligibility period and I have completed my bachelor's or graduate degree within the past (6) years.
 None of the above applies to me.


2.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-09: This section includes questions about the experience and/or education required for this position. Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your minimum qualifications for this position at the GS-9 grade level. [NOTE: Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select]:
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-7) in the federal service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Program Analyst. Qualifying specialized experience include, but is not limited to: • Responding to requests for information regarding policy and program issues • Researching issues to be discussed/providing background documentation • Communicating, orally and in writing, with a wide variety of individuals. • Preparing summary and analysis of briefings and meetings. • Tracking data and information provided to management, staff and customers.
 I have a master's or equivalent graduate degree or 2 full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree or LL.B. or J.D., if related. Education at the graduate level must have been obtained in an accredited college or university and must demonstrate the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. [NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation].
 I have an equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education in excess of the first year (18 semester hours) may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-09 level. [NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required].
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


3.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS GS-11: Carefully read the following descriptions below. Select the one response below that best describes your minimum qualifications for this position at the GS-11 grade level. [NOTE: Please ensure your resume/application supports the response that you select]:
 I have at least one (1) full year of specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade level (GS-9) in the Federal Service, that is directly related to the work of the position and has equipped me with the knowledge, skills and abilities to successfully perform the duties as a Program Analyst. Qualifying specialized experience include, but is not limited to: • Preparing and providing briefings and presentations on programs and issues of interest. • Writing and reviewing a full range of correspondence/information to be provided to a variety of audiences. • Providing technical assistance to program staff on how to respond to programmatic inquiries. • Compiling workload metrics • Interpreting reporting requirements contained in bills and enacted legislation. • Preparing complex reports for senior department and OCLA management. • Assisting management in interpretation and utilization of reports and congressional information provided.
 I have successfully completed a Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree, or three (3) full years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to such a degree, or an LL.M. if related that demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities necessary to do the work of this position. [NOTE: Transcripts must be submitted with application. Education cannot be credited without documentation].
 I have equivalent combination of successfully completed education and specialized experience directly related to the work of the position as outlined above that meets the requirements of the position. Only education in excess of a master's or equivalent graduate education may be used to qualify applicants for the GS-11 level. [NOTE: If using education combined with specialized experience to qualify, a copy of your transcript is required].
 I do not have the experience and/or education as described above.


RESUME REMINDER: Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. Your resume must include the following information for each job listed: Job title Duties (be as detailed as possible) Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008) Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week) Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


TRANSCRIPT REMINDER: If you are basing your qualifications on education (or a combination of education and experience) or if the position requires a college education to qualify, you must submit a copy of your transcripts with your application.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙