Position Title
SUMMER EMPLOYEE (CLERK)
Agency
U.S. Army, Pacific
Announcement Number
FEFK264802175232 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 02, 2026 to Jul 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Overseas Family Member Youth Eligibility

Do you meet the following?  You are eligible for this hiring category if you are a Family member according to DOD Instruction 1400.25, volume 1232, in that you are a Family member of a:

• Member of the U.S. Forces on active duty.
• U.S.-citizen civilian employee of a U.S. Government agency.
• Regular full-time or part-time civilian employee of a DOD Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality (NAFI)

AND

• A spouse under 18 years of age in high school, OR
• An unmarried U.S.-citizen family member 14 through 22 years of age (including stepchild, adopted child, and child under the legal guardianship of sponsor or sponsor's spouse), OR
• (Germany and Belgium only)An unmarried non-U.S.-citizen family member 15 through 22 years of age (including stepchild, adopted child, and child under the legal guardianship of sponsor or sponsor's spouse)

AND

• Physically reside in the same household with your sponsor at the time of application (unless attending a college or university in the United States) and during employment.

NOTE: The following individuals are not eligible for placement in the U.S. Army in Europe Summer Hire Program:

• Family members of contractor employees
• Family members of local national employees
• Dual-nationality citizens with U.S. citizenship and citizenship in the country of intended placement
• Family members considered ordinarily resident

The following documents are required to verify your eligibility for employment:

• A copy of your sponsor's permanent change of station orders, including:
   • a statement authorizing you (the spouse/family member) to accompany your sponsor to the permanent duty station,
   • the specific location to which the sponsor is assigned, reassigned, or transferred to permanent change of station orders, and
     the effective date of the permanent change of station
• Verification of the relationship (i.e., marriage certificate, certificate of live birth, etc.)
• If your sponsor was locally hired in the overseas area, a statement from the local Human Resources office verifying you are an authorized dependent.

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Camp Carroll, South Korea
 B. Camp Henry, South Korea
 C. Camp Walker, South Korea
 D. PYONG TAEK, South Korea


Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
I have provided a copy of my sponsor's military orders or Civilian Letter of Employment.
 Yes
 No


2.
I have attached proof that I am enrolled in the fall 2026 semester or that I am currently a high school student.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a Dual-nationality citizen with U.S. citizenship and citizenship in the country of intended placement?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a Summer Hire position with Department of the Army. Your resume and the responses you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification. Please review your responses for accuracy before you submit your application.


1.
Please choose one of sessions which best identifies your eligibility and availability to work during the summer.
 I am a family member dependent child who is a full-time College Student under the age of 23 years of age and will be available until 31 Aug 2026 for the College Session. (You are required to submit your Resume, Sponsor Orders, 2026 Fall College enrollment/Registration documentation, and Sponsor's Letter of Employment at the time of application).
 My eligibility and availability is not identified in A


2.
Your responses to the Announcement and Assessment Questionnaires, along with your resume and all supporting documentation are subject to evaluation and verification to ensure accuracy. Please take this opportunity to review your responses to ensure their accuracy.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No. I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙