Position Title
Advanced Medical Support Assistant
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTC-13064183-26-SM Opens in new window
Open Period
Sep 15, 2026 to Sep 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Broward County, FL
 B. Homestead, FL
 C. Miami, FL
 D. Monroe County, FL


2.
Select the specialties you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one specialty.
 A. 1st Shift (Daytime Hours)
 B. 2nd Shift (Afternoon Hours)
 C. 3rd Shift (Overnight/Graveyard Hours)
 D. Rotating Shifts (includes nights & weekends)


3.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


4.
I authorize my application information being shared with hiring managers for similar positions. I understand this option may not result in further consideration for additional positions nor will it impact my application for this announcement.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
BASIC REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. All applicants must have the required minimum education and experience to meet the basic requirements of this position.


1.
Education. You must possess a high school diploma, General Education Development (GED) equivalency certificate, or proficiency certificate from a State or territorial-level Board or Department of Education. Note: You must provide proof of this with your application (such as a copy of your diploma/GED, high school transcripts, etc.).

Do you possess the required education as described above?

 Yes & I have provided proof of this with this application.
 No.


2.
English Language Proficiency. You must be proficient in spoken and written English as required by 38 U.S.C. § 7402(d) and 7407(d).

Are you proficient in basic written and spoken English?

 Yes.
 No.


GRADE REQUIREMENTS- The following questions pertain to your qualifications for this position. In addition to the basic requirements for employment, the following criteria must be met to qualify for the specific GS-6 grade level.


3.
Experience: You must have at least 1 year of experience equivalent to the GS-5 grade level. Examples of this includes, but is not limited to: independently performing duties related to the delivery of health care services in an inpatient or outpatient setting; advising clinical staff on current administrative processes; interpreting and verifying provider orders; scheduling, canceling & re-scheduling patient appointments and/or consults; entering no-show information; monitoring appointment requests from multiple electronic sources; participating in huddles with other MSAs and/or clinic staff to determine the daily needs of the clinic; verifying and updating demographics & insurance information when patients check-in for appointments; coordinating administrative functions related to emergency & non-emergency transfers to other VA facilities or private hospitals & determines appointment type based on the patient's eligibility status (i.e., TRICARE, sharing agreements, collaterals, research patient, VA employee, etc.); etc.

Do you possess the required experience as noted above for this position?

 Yes.
 No.


RESUME/CV REMINDER - Your resume/CV must include the following information for each job/position listed: Job title; Occupational Series and Grade (if a federal position); Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month and year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); and Full-time or part-time status (include the number of hours you work each week). Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


DOCUMENT REMINDER- Failure to submit a complete application packet could cause you to be made ineligible. Remember to submit a SF-50 (if you are a current VA/Federal employee); proof of education that you possess a high school diploma, General Education Development (GED) equivalency certificate, or proficiency certificate from a State or territorial-level Board or Department of Education; transcripts and anything else required by the vacancy announcement to show that you qualify for this position. Failure to submit your most recent SF-50, proof of education/transcript(s), etc. may make you ineligible for this position (even facility employees). To obtain your SF-50s, VA employees may access your eOPF (electronic Official Personnel Folder) by going to: https://eopf.opm.gov/va/. All other Federal employees must contact your serving HR Office for assistance assessing your eOPF. To obtain proof of education, you may go to: https://www.studentclearinghouse.org/ under Order Transcript to see if you can obtain from there. NOTE: It is the responsibility of the applicant to submit the appropriate documentation to prove your eligibility and/or qualifications. See the vacancy announcement for specific details on what you need to submit. Please contact Human Resources should you have questions or need assistance with these documents.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙