Position Title
SUPPLY TECHNICIAN
Agency
United States Space Force
Announcement Number
26-5RFSVL238854 Opens in new window
Open Period
Mar 18, 2026 to Mar 30, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
The duties of this position require the incumbent to possess or obtain and maintain a valid state Driver's License in one of the 50 U.S. states or possessions to operate vehicles. Do you currently possess or are you willing and able to obtain and maintain a valid license to comply with this requirement?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
By agreeing to the statement below you are confirming that you:
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy
Verified your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability
Failure to agree or respond to the this will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


4.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


5.
To be considered for this position, the applicant must be a U.S. Citizen or a Legal U.S. Resident for a minimum of 3 years and must reside in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement. Do you meet this requirement?
 Yes
 No


6.
Are you a current NAF employee?
 A. Yes
 B. No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙