Position Title
SOCIAL WORKER
Agency
Air National Guard Units
Announcement Number
OH-12839834-AF-25-364-T5 Opens in new window
Open Period
Tuesday, December 2, 2025 to Wednesday, December 31, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizens.  Are you a US Citizen?
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
We will evaluate your resume and responses to this assessment questionnaire to determine if you are among the best qualified for this position. Your responses are subject to verification and must be supported by your resume and supporting documents. 



Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Do you have a master's degree in social work in a school accredited by the Council on Social Work Education?
 Yes
 No


2.
Do you have at least one year experience equivalent to GS11 that equipped you with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position, and that is related to the work of the position to be filled?
 Yes
 No


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


3.
Actively supports the commander's leadership team in addressing the psychological health of their installation. Provides strategic planning and leadership to implement an ANG comprehensive psychological health strategic plan.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙