Position Title
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NE-12929882-AR-26-062 Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 06, 2026 to Sep 26, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
1.
This position is open to applicants Area 1 applicants (USPFO ONLY). What is your current area of consideration?

AREA 1: Current permanent and indefinite technicians of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; and current Title 5 employees of the Nebraska Military Department who are military members of the Nebraska National Guard.
AREA 2: All Drill Status/M-Day members and temporary technicians of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 3: Current military service members who are willing and eligible to become members of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
AREA 4: All qualified candidates eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 1; I am a current permanent or indefinite technician of the Nebraska Army or Air National Guard; or a current Title 5 employee of the Nebraska Military Department and military member of the Nebraska National Guard.
 Area 2; I am a Drill Status/M-Day Member or temporary technician of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard.
 Area 3; I am a current military service member who is willing and eligible to become a member of the Nebraska Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 Area 4; I am a qualified candidate, eligible and willing to become a member of the Nebraska National Air or Army National Guard. I understand I must become a member of the respective Nebraska National Guard prior to the effective date of hire.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska National Army or Air National Guard.


MILITARY MEMBERSHIP IS REQUIRED FOR THIS POSITION. FOR QUESTIONS REGARDING ELIGIBILITY TO JOIN THE NEBRASKA ARMY NATIONAL GUARD PLEASE CONTACT THE LOCAL RECRUITING OFFICE AT 402-309-7458.


2.
Are you an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E6 - E8 or WO1 - CW4?
 Yes. I am an Enlisted member in the grades of E6 - E8.
 Yes. I am a Warrant Officer in the grades of WO1 - CW4.
 No. I am not an Enlisted member or Warrant Officer in the grades of E6 - E8 or WO1 - CW4.
 I am unwilling to join the Nebraska Army National Guard.


Assessment 1
Please answer all of the questions.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
Work involves developing policies and administering the management of traffic programs, plans and directs traffic operations within the program and performs necessary technical work involved in obtaining economical and efficient transportation of equipment, supplies, and personnel in support of these operations.
 Yes
 No


2.
GS-11: Do you possess at least 1-year specialized experience equivalent to at least the next lower grade. Experience, education, or training performing, administering, or supervising technical and analytical work concerned with planning, development and execution of traffic policies and programs. Experience interpreting applicable Federal, State, and local laws, and regulations concerning transportation and traffic procedures. Knowledge of transportation requirements and systems for specific geographic areas.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position functions as the Installation Transportation Agent, responsible for planning, directing, and monitoring the comprehensive Commercial Transportation Program. Please describe your experience managing a multifaceted transportation program that includes freight, hazardous materials, and passenger movements. In your response, detail your approach to long-range planning, ensuring regulatory compliance, and evaluating the overall effectiveness of the program.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


4.
A critical component of this role involves financial and contract management, including serving as the financial activity manager for transportation funds and as a Contracting Officer Representative (COR). Provide a detailed example of your experience managing a transportation budget. In your description, please include how you procured necessary funding, validated and certified billing for payment, and your responsibilities in overseeing contracts with vendors or a government-approved travel office.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


5.
This position requires providing advisory services to senior leadership and coordinating with numerous external agencies, such as the Surface Deployment Distribution Command (SDDC) and state Departments of Transportation. Describe a time when you had to resolve a complex transportation issue that required coordination with multiple stakeholders. In your response, explain the problem, the steps you took to analyze the situation, the solution you recommended to leadership, and the final outcome.


Select the one statement that most accurately describes your training and experience carrying out each task using the scale provided.


6.
Describe your experience in planning and executing a large-scale unit or organizational move. Please detail the steps you took to manage the end-to-end process, from initial coordination and scheduling to the final execution, ensuring the movement was completed efficiently, economically, and in support of operational requirements.
 I have not had education, training, or experience in performing this task.
 I have had education or training in how to perform this task, but have not yet performed it on the job.
 I have performed this task on the job. My work on this task was monitored closely by a supervisor or senior employee to ensure compliance with proper procedures.
 I have performed this task as a regular part of a job. I have performed it independently and normally without review by a supervisor or senior employee.
 I am considered an expert in performing this task. I have supervised performance of this task or am normally the person who is consulted by other workers to assist or train them in doing this task because of my expertise.


7.
As previously explained, your ratings in this Occupational Questionnaire are subject to evaluation and verification based on the documents and references you submit. Later steps in the selection process are specifically designed to verify your responses. Deliberate attempts to falsify information will be grounds for not selecting you from employment following acceptance.

I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any documents or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 USC 1001); my eligibility may be canceled, I may be denied an appointment or I may be removed and debarred from Federal Service (5 CFR part 731). I understand that any information I give will be investigated.

Please take this opportunity to review your ratings to ensure their accuracy. By agreeing to the statement below, you are confirming that you: (1) understand this warning, (2) have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy, (3) verify that your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability; and (4) realize you must join the respective Nebraska National Guard and wear the military uniform.

Failure to agree to this statement or answer this question will make you ineligible from further consideration for the position.
 Yes, I certify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that I will be removed from consideration and I understand that information provided above.
 No, I do not accept this agreement provided above and or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙