Position Title
OPERATIONS RESEARCH ANALYST (DATA SCIENTIST)
Agency
Defense Human Resources Activity
Announcement Number
DHRADPAC-26-13025517-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 17, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who is retired, released, or discharged from the Armed Forces AND on the date of retirement, release, or discharge, has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs? 
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?

For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Essay
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the list below, select the response that most closely represents your experience/education for this position.
 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-11 grade level in the federal service (experience may have been gained in the private sector) which has given me the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform successfully the duties of the position. The specialized experience required for this position is as follows: Experience applying standard data analytics, statistical modeling, and machine learning techniques (e.g., regression, clustering) to support organizational decision-making, under the direction of senior staff; Experience supporting the analytic lifecycle, including data ingestion, preparation, modeling, and delivery of results for assigned projects, with guidance from senior analysts; Experience assisting in the design and maintenance of data pipelines and analytic tools, including the use of version control software (e.g., GitLab) to ensure reproducibility and documentation; Experience preparing briefings, written reports, and data visualizations (e.g., Tableau, Power BI) to communicate analytic results to internal team members and stakeholders; Experience contributing to analytic projects by supporting planning, tracking, and reporting on project progress under the direction of senior staff.
 I do not meet the requirements as described above.


2.
From the list below, select the response that most closely represents your education for this position.
 I have a degree in operations research; or at least 24 semester hours in a combination of operations research, mathematics, probability, statistics, mathematical logic, science, or subject-matter courses requiring substantial competence in college-level mathematics or statistics. At least 3 of the 24 semester hours must have been in calculus (transcripts required).
 My level of education is not reflected in the statements listed above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙