Position Title
MWR Installation Integrated Solid Waste Coordinator
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12979145 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for the MWR Integrated Solid Waste Coordinator position. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating. Please ensure that your resume fully supports the response you choose for each of the questions below.


1.
Which of the following do you possess to meet the basic requirements of the 1101 General Business and Industry series? If using education to qualify, transcripts that reflect a conferred or degree award date must be provided with application. If using specialized experience to qualify, it must be clearly annotated on your resume.
 I have a four-year degree or higher from an accredited college or university in a related field of study (such as business administration, public administration, environmental science, etc.)
 I have at least 1 (one) year of appropriate general experience that has given me knowledge of business principles and practices to analyze and evaluate program operations.
 I have an equivalent combination of education and general experience.
 I have none of the above.


2.

Which statement best describes your experience overseeing recycling or solid waste operations and supervising staff?

 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with overseeing recycling or solid waste operations and supervising staff.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with overseeing recycling or solid waste operations and supervising staff.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with overseeing recycling or solid waste operations and supervising staff.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with overseeing recycling or solid waste operations and supervising staff.
 I have no experience with overseeing recycling or solid waste operations and supervising staff.


3.
Which statement best describes your experience with refuse contract performance assessment and surveillance?
 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with refuse contract performance assessment and surveillance.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with refuse contract performance assessment and surveillance.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with refuse contract performance assessment and surveillance.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with refuse contract performance assessment and surveillance.
 I have no experience with refuse contract performance assessment and surveillance.


4.
Which statement best describes your experience in managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials?
 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.
 I have no experience with managing, classifying, and processing solid waste and hazardous materials.


5.
Which statement best describes your experience applying safety and environmental regulations in an industrial, recycling, or solid waste environment?
 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with applying safety and environmental regulations in an industrial, recycling, or solid waste environment.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with applying safety and environmental regulations in an industrial, recycling, or solid waste environment.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with applying safety and environmental regulations in an industrial, recycling, or solid waste environment.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with applying safety and environmental regulations in an industrial, recycling, or solid waste environment.
 I have no experience with applying safety and environmental regulations in an industrial, recycling, or solid waste environment.


6.

Which statement best describes your experience tracking program metrics and generating operational or statistical reports?

 I have 5 (five) or more years of experience with tracking program metrics and generating operational or statistical reports.
 I have 3 (three) to 5 (five) years of experience with tracking program metrics and generating operational or statistical reports.
 I have 1 (one) to 3 (three) years of experience with tracking program metrics and generating operational or statistical reports.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience with tracking program metrics and generating operational or statistical reports.
 I have no experience with tracking program metrics and generating operational or statistical reports.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙