Position Title
LIAISON OFFICER (CYBER)
Agency
Air Force Elements, U.S. Transportation Command
Announcement Number
USTC-26-12980605-DH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 09, 2026 to Jun 21, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces on active duty? 
-OR-
Are you the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired with a disability rating at the time of retirement of 100 percent or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces who retired or separated from the Armed Forces and has a disability rating of 100 percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs?
-OR-
Are you the un-remarried widow or widower of a member of the Armed Forces killed while in active duty status?
For more information, review USAJOBS Veterans resources.
 Yes
 No


3.
Eligible: I am a PPP DoD retained grade preference eligible. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area. I certify that I am within my 2-year period of grade retention and have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Retained Grade PPP Self-Certification Checklist, DD3145-1 (whs.mil), a copy of your Notification of Personnel Action, Standard Form (SF) 50 effecting the placement in retained grade status; or a copy of the notification letter you received regarding the RIF or classification downgrade.

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Retained Grade Preference Eligible?


 Yes
 No


4.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible

I am an MR or NG Reserve Technician who will lose or has lost my military membership through no fault of my own after completing at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement.  I am exercising my preferen­ce eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area in accordance with Section 3329(b) of Title 5, U.S.C.  This preference eligibility is valid for 1 year after separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received showing you are no longer eligible for military or NG membership (through no fault of your own) and that you have completed at least 15 years of technician service and a minimum of 20 years of service creditable for non-regular retirement. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program (PPP) DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Technician Eligible?

 Yes
 No


5.
Eligible: I am a military spouse who has relocated or will relocate within 30 days with my active duty sponsor on a permanent change of station (PCS) move to a new active duty assignment. I am exercising my preference eligibility to positions within the local commuting area of the new duty station. I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of the new duty location.

NOTE 1: Military spouses are eligible for one noncompetitive appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's relocation to the new permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the geographical area of the PCS orders. If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's new duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action.

NOTE 2: MSPs using eligibility EO 13473 cannot be appointed until they have relocated with the military sponsor to the new duty station.

Supporting Documentation:  You must provide a signed Military Spouse PPP Self-Certification Checklist, https://publicfileshare.chra.army.mil/USAStaffing/DD_3145-4_Military_Spouse_PPP_SelfCertification_Checklist_v2.pdf  
PCS orders/verification of duty location assignment, a copy of marriage certificate or license and documents as listed on the Military Spouse PPP Self-certification Checklist. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program DoD Military Spouse Preference Eligible?




 Yes
 No


6.
Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement

I am an MR or NG Technician who will be or has been involuntarily medically retired due to a service-connected medical disability that disqualifies me from military membership or from holding my required military grade, and have applied for or am receiving a disability retirement annuity.  I am exercising my preference eligibility to DoD positions within my local commuting area.  I understand that the position for which I am applying must be at the same grade or equivalent level, tenure, and work schedule as the position held currently or upon separation. 

NOTE: By using this eligibility, you certify that you have not obtained permanent Federal employment, nor have you accepted or declined a PPP job offer.

Supporting Documentation: If you indicate "yes" to this question, you must submit a copy of the Military Reserve and National Guard Technician Disability PPP Self-Certification Checklist and copies of the appropriate documentation, such as the notification letter you received that states you are no longer eligible for Reserve membership due to a service-connected disability. 

Are you a Priority Placement Program, DoD Military Reserve (MR) and National Guard (NG) Preference Eligible Technician Receiving Disability Retirement?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Are you a former Federal employee who has retired and is receiving an annuity either under the Civil Service Retirement System (CSRS) or Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS)?*
NOTE: If you are receiving a temporary medical disability retirement OR are a retired Military Service Member your response should be NO.
 Yes
 No


Short Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter that BEST describes the highest level of education and/or experience that you fully possess in order to minimally qualify for this position. Read all of the statements completely before making your selection.
 I possess at least one year of specialized experience at the GS-14 grade level or equivalent under other pay systems in the Federal service, military, or private sector. My creditable specialized experience includes: Serving as an advisor or consultant regarding the Joint Deployment and Distribution Enterprise (JDDE),Providing authoritative advice regarding existing and emerging cyber-vulnerabilities, recommended risk mitigation strategies, potential impact on the strategic deterrence mission, and the operational relevance, advising on complex physical and cyber threats.
 I do not possess the required level of specialized experience to qualify for this


In this part you will respond to questions about your experience as it relates to the position for which you are applying. For each task question, choose the level description that best describes your experience and/or training. Your responses must be fully supported within the text of your resume. Failure to properly identify your experience may result in the lowering of your overall score and/or your disqualification for this position.


2.
What is the dominant funding stream for USTRANSCOM and its transportation components?

 The transportation working capital fund
 Operations and maintenance funding appropriated from Congress
 The Joint Training Exercise and Evaluation Program funding
 COCOM discretionary funding as determined by the Commander


3.
Which of the following is a leadership responsibility?

 Explains performance expectations to subordinate supervisors and directly supervised and provides regular feedback on weaknesses
 Explains performance expectations to subordinate supervisors and directly supervised and provides regular feedback on strengths and weaknesses
 Delegates supervisory duties to subordinate supervisory personnel
 Take all supervisory responsibilities to the division chief level and eliminate subordinate supervisory level in the division


4.
What is the roll of a senior leader as it applies to the Equal Opportunity and Treatment (EEO)
Program?

 No roll, that responsibility rests with the Director
 Respond to inquiries only
 Defer to the local EEO office
 Apply EEO principals and requirements to all personnel, enforce standards of conduct


5.
The USTRANSCOM NCIJTFLNO has tactical Control of the DISA Ops personnel in the
Global Operation Center at Scott AFB?

 True
 False


6.
The Unified Command Plan serves what purpose for the Combatant Commander and Staff?

 a classified U.S. presidential document that assigns missions, responsibilities, and geographic areas of responsibility to the Department of Defense's combatant commands
 a list of primary tasks performed by the command
 a list of tasks required for the global operation center to be successful in its administrative functions
 a subjective list of service level functions


7.
Which is an example of the primary duties of the NCIJTF LNO?

 Act as the primary action officer for all incoming workload for the J3
 Delegate division personnel duties to the J33 deputy division chief
 Represent the Commander and J3 in all activities that monitor component execution of worldwide defense transportation system (DTS) movements across the cyberspace domain
 Lead team building, regulatory compliance, and customer requirements to branch chiefs


8.
Which of the following are USTRANSCOM Commander Unified Command Plan
responsibilities:

 Single Manager for Global Patient Movement
 Single Manager for Transportation
 Joint Enabling Capabilities Provider
 All of the above
 None of the above


9.
LNO duties include:

 Supervising day-to-day cyberspace operations and potential impact to mission execution
 Collaborating across a matrixed organization synchronizing command capabilities in support of all operations
 Monitoring command and control of USTRANSCOM operations on behalf of the Commander
 All of the above
 None of the above


10.
Knowledge requirements for all Command LNOs include:

 Military strategic and tactical concepts
 All domain command and control
 Defense support to civil authorities
 All of the above
 None of the above


11.
What is the keystone document for Cyberspace Operations?

 Joint Pub 4-0
 Joint Pub 3-12


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙