Position Title
Public Safety Dispatcher
Agency
National Park Service
Announcement Number
NE-1611-ACAD-26-12971940-LH Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 02, 2026 to Jun 09, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a United States Citizen?

For more information, review Employment of U.S Citizens.
 Yes
 No


3.
This position is being filled under the Field Unit Local Hiring Authority [P.L. 6938 Section 127]. This appointing authority permits direct appointment of qualified individuals maintaining a permanent and exclusive residence in the vicinity of a field unit into competitive service positions. 

Do you maintain a permanent and exclusive residence within the vicinity of the field unit being advertised?

If selected for the position, you will be required to certify you meet this requirement and provide supporting evidence/documentation (e.g. mortgage or property deed, lease/rental agreement, utility bill, insurance policy) as proof that you are a resident.
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
7
8


A review of your resume and supporting documentation will be made and compared against your responses to the Assessment Questionnaire to determine if you are qualified for this job. If your resume is incomplete or does not support the responses provided in the Assessment Questionnaire, or if you fail to submit all required documentation, you will be rated 'ineligible', 'not qualified', or your score will be adjusted accordingly. If a determination is made that you have inflated your qualifications or experience, you can lose consideration for this position. Please follow all instructions carefully; errors or omissions can affect your rating.


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


2.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


3.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


4.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


5.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


6.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


7.
When you applied to this job, did you have any engagement with a National Park Service (NPS) Recruiter?
 A. No. I did not have any engagement with an NPS recruiter.
 B. Yes. I attended an NPS Federal Resume Webinar.
 C. Yes. At a virtual or in-person recruitment or job fair.
 D. Yes. I received an email from an NPS Recruiter.


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a permanent Public Safety Dispatcher position at Acadia National Park. For each question, choose the response that best describes your experience and training. Mark only one response for each question. DO NOT overstate or understate your level of experience and capability. You should be aware that your ratings are subject to evaluation and verification of references as appropriate. THE RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.


1.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, GS-07: From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Public Safety Dispatcher, GS-2151-07 position. Please read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time specialized experience equivalent to the GS-6 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience is experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. This experience includes but is not limited to activities such as: provide dispatch and call taking services in a communications center that provides public safety (medical, law enforcement, search and rescue, fire or other emergencies/public safety related) dispatch operation in a complex environment (i.e. remote/urban environment, wildland fire, or other complex environments or situations); coordinate responses to emergency incidents by initiating response of personnel and equipment according to agency protocols and providing communication and logistical support to responders; operate computer systems such as but not limited to National Criminal Information Network (NCIC), National Law Enforcement Telecommunications System (NLETS), Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD), or similar systems that aid in public safety dispatching to run queries and document communications.
 I do not meet or exceed the experience described in the above statement.


2.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS, GS-08: From the descriptions below, select one response that best describes how your background meets the basic experience requirements for a Public Safety Dispatcher, GS-2151-08 position. Please read all responses before making your selection. MARK ONLY ONE RESPONSE. If you select more than one response or leave this question blank, you will be rated ineligible. If you do not meet these minimum qualifications, you will be considered not qualified and will not receive consideration for this position. YOUR RESUME OR APPLICATION MATERIALS YOU SUBMIT FOR THIS ANNOUNCEMENT MUST SUPPORT THE ANSWER YOU CLAIM UNDER THIS AND OTHER QUESTIONS. IF NOT, YOU WILL BE FOUND NOT QUALIFIED OR YOUR SCORE WILL BE LOWERED.

 I possess at least one year (52 weeks) of full-time specialized experience equivalent to the GS-7 grade level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience is experience that equipped me with the particular knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to successfully perform the duties of this position, and that is typically in or related to the work of the position to be filled. This experience includes but is not limited to activities such as: provide dispatch and call taking services in a communications center that provides public safety (medical, law enforcement, search and rescue, fire or both emergencies/public safety related) dispatch operation in a complex environment (i.e. remote/urban environment, serves more than one division, unit, jurisdiction, and/or agency, or other complex situations); coordinate responses to emergency incidents by initiating response of personnel and equipment according to agency protocols and providing communication and logistical support to responders; operate computer systems such as but not limited to National Criminal Information Network (NCIC},National Law Enforcement Telecommunication System (NLETS), Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD), or similar systems that aid in public safety dispatching to run queries and document communications; review internal operating procedures and systems related to public safety to make recommendations or improvement; provide technical guidance, orientation, and training to new employees or lower level dispatchers.
 I do not meet or exceed the experience described in the above statement.


3.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.

 Yes, I certify that the information provided in this questionnaire is true, correct and provided in good faith, and I understand the information provided above.
 No, I do not certify/understand the information provided above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙