Position Title
ITT Program Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
CAPE-26-12979058 Opens in new window
Open Period
Jun 05, 2026 to Jun 10, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Merit Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
This position requires selectee to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment. The background investigation may include all of some of the following: a review of any criminal history, past or current indebtedness, legal or illegal drug use, other factions that may impeded successful performance on the job. I am willing and able to submit to a background investigation to verify suitability for employment for this position.
 Yes
 No


2.
Are you a current MWR NAF employee working on Naval Ordnance Test Unit? 

*If you answer yes to this question, you are required to submit a copy of your most recent Personnel Action Report (PAR/SF-50) showing your status as a CNIC employee. Failure to provide documentation to support your claim may result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy, Non-Appropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the experience and/or education to qualify for a Supervisory Recreation Specialist - (Community Recreation Department) NF-0188-03 vacancy. Failure to respond to the questionnaire will result in disqualification. All experience must be clearly documented on resume.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you. (Transcripts must be received if qualifying based on education)
 A minimum of a 4-year degree in General Recreation, Outdoor Recreation, Recreation and Parks Leadership, Wild Land Recreation Management, Natural Resources Recreation, Youth Recreation, Public, Urban, or Community Recreation, or Physical Education.
 I possess at least three years of specialized experience that includes, planning, organizing, coordinating, supervising, or evaluating community, industrial, outdoor, institutional, or other recreational programs.
 I possess a combination of education and experience.
 I possess none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have working in a recreational field that includes but not limited to the following: program planning, coordinating leisure activities, classes, community special events and entertainment events for individuals and groups of varying demographics, ages and interest?(i.e., comedy shows, holiday events, celebrity appearances, concerts, seasonal celebrations).
 I do not have any of the above-mentioned experience.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as described above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as described above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as described above.
 I have more than three (3) years of experience as described above.


3.
How many years of experience do you possess in creating, negotiating, implementing, and sustaining partnerships within the local community or military organizations?
 I do not have any experience with the above-mentioned duties.
 I have less than two (2) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have between two (2) and three (3) years of experience as mentioned above.
 I have at least four (4) years of experience as mentioned above.


4.
How many years of supervisory experience do you have?
 I do not have any supervisory experience.
 I have less than two (2) years of supervisory experience.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of supervisory experience.
 I have more than four (4) years of supervisory experience.


5.
How many years of experience do you possess promoting recreation programs through the written or spoken work, using all available media and promotional sources, and/or through public appearances?
 I have no experience as stated above.
 I have less than one (1) year of experience as stated above.
 I have between one (1) and two (2) years of experience as stated above.
 I have between two (2) and four (4) years of experience as stated above.
 I have more than four (4) years of experience as stated above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙