Position Title
CISA - Scholarship for Service (SFS) Post Grad - Accepting Resumes, Transcripts, and Service Letters
Agency
Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency
Announcement Number
OEE-SFS-12822341-26-DW Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 15, 2025 to Feb 27, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service (SFS) Program - Post Graduate - 
Are you a Scholarship for Service (SFS) recipient who graduated and completed a bachelor's or master's degree in cybersecurity at an awardee institution; or research-based doctorate (Ph.D.) degree? 

-OR-

Are you a Scholarship for Service (SFS) recipient who graduated from a SFS Community College Cyber Pilot (C3P) at an awardee institution and completed an associate degree or specialized certification in the field of cybersecurity; AND already have a bachelor's degree?

To verify your eligibility, you must submit a copy of your transcripts and signed CyberCorps® Scholarship for Service (SFS) Program Agreement to Serve or Repay. 

Unofficial transcripts will be accepted that includes the following:
Your name
Name of the educational institution
Declared degree program
Date of degree conferral
Course title(s), credits completed, grade received, and date of completion
Grade Point Average (GPA)
For more information, review CyberCorps: Scholarship for Service (SFS) Program
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Oakland, CA
 B. Denver, CO
 C. Pensacola, FL
 D. Atlanta, GA
 E. Chicago, IL
 F. Boston, MA
 G. Kansas City, MO
 H. New York, NY
 I. Philadelphia, PA
 J. Dallas, TX
 K. Arlington, VA
 L. Seattle, WA


2.
For qualification determinations and to receive full consideration for relevant experience, your resume must contain complete information and support your question responses. Be clear and specific when describing your work history since human resources cannot make assumptions regarding your experience.

Your resume MUST not exceed 2-pages in length and include the following:
Full Legal Name
Phone Number
Email Address
Work history (which includes Job Titles and Employer)
Detailed description of your job-related qualifications (including tasks performed)
Start and end dates of employment with the month and year (e.g., MM/YYYY to MM/YYYY, MM/YYYY to Present)
Total hours worked per week for each job listed.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, your resume MUST also include the following for all Federal positions you have held:
Pay Plan/Band (e.g., GS, WG, etc.)
Occupational series (e.g., 201, 301, 2210, etc.)
Grade level (e.g., 5, 9, 13, etc.)
For military service, your resume MUST also include your rank and/or pay grade (e.g., O-03 (Captain/Lieutenant), E-5 (Sergeant/Petty Officer Second Class), etc.).

If the pay plan/band, occupational series, grade level, and/or rank/pay grade are not provided, it may result in an ineligible determination.

Do NOT include the following types of information in your resume:
Photographs
Social media links (e.g., LinkedIn)
Personal information, such as date of birth, social security number (SSN), gender, religious affiliation, etc.
Classified or government sensitive information
Inappropriate material or content
If your resume contains prohibited information as listed above, it will result in an ineligible determination, and you WILL NOT receive consideration for this position.

Do you verify that your resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, includes all required information, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above?
 Yes, I verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, and does not contain any of the prohibited information as listed above.
 No, I am not willing to verify that my resume does not exceed 2-pages in length, contains complete information for each job entry, or may contain prohibited information as listed above. I understand my application may be deemed insufficient and I may not receive consideration for this position. I further understand that if my resume contains any prohibited information, it will result in my removal from consideration for this position.


3.
The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) must authorize employment offers made to current or former political appointees.

In the last five years (from the closing date of this vacancy announcement) have you served, or are you currently serving, as an Executive Branch Political appointee, Political Schedule A, Schedule C (confidential or policy-determining), or Non-Career or Limited appointee in the Senior Executive System (SES)? If yes, please provide appropriate documentation in your application package to provide proof of your current or most recent political appointment.


 Yes, I have held a political appointment within the last five years.
 Yes, I am currently in a position based on a political appointment.
 No, I have not held a political appointment within the last five years.


4.
Please enter the name, city, and state of the Participating Institution you graduated (or will graduate) from.


5.
Please select the level of education you have completed or intend to complete within nine (9) months from the date of application. (Select all that apply)

This position requires proof of education. You must submit a copy of your transcripts and/or certification. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted that includes your name, the name of the educational institution, course title(s), number of credits, grade, and date of completion. An official transcript will be required if you are selected.
 A. Associate's degree
 B. Bachelor’s degree
 C. Bachelor’s degree with Superior Academic Achievement
 D. 1 full year of graduate level education
 E. Master’s degree
 F. Ph.D. or Doctorate degree
 G. LL.B. (Bachelor of Laws) or J.D. (Juris Doctor) degree
 H. LL.M. (Master of Laws) degree
 I. Professional registration or licensure
 J. Vocational or Technical degree
 K. Certification
 L. None of the above


6.
Please indicate the graduation date or expected graduation date for your degree or certificate from a qualifying educational institution.


7.
The following question is regarding your Selective Service status. If you are a male born after December 31, 1959, and are at least 18 years of age, civil service employment law (5 U.S.C. 3328) requires that you must be registered with the Selective Service System, unless you meet certain exemptions under Selective Service law. Selective Service bases the registration requirement on gender assigned at birth and not on gender identity or on gender reassignment. Individuals who are born male and changed their gender to female are still required to register. Individuals who are born female and changed their gender to male are not required to register. If you are required to register but knowingly and willfully fail to do so, you are ineligible for appointment by executive agencies of the Federal Government (5 CFR 300.704). Visit http://www.sss.gov for additional information.
 I am registered with the Selective Service System. I understand my registration will be verified with the Selective Service System database.
 I meet one of the authorized Selective Service registration exemptions and understand that I will be required to provide verification before I can be employed by CISA.
 I am not at least 18 years of age, but understand I am required by law to register upon turning 18.
 I am or was a member of the U.S. Armed Forces on active duty or a member of the National Guard or Reserves; therefore, I am considered compliant with registration requirements. I understand I must provide documentation of my military service, such as my DD Form 214.
 I was born a male on or before December 31, 1959; therefore, the registration requirement does not apply to me.
 I was born a female; therefore, the registration requirement does not apply to me.
 I was required to register for the Selective Service and did not register. I do not have an approved exemption, and I have not served in the military.


8.
If you are a Federal civilian employee, under what type of appointment are you currently serving?
 Career Appointment, Competitive Service
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Competitive Service
 Career Appointment, Excepted Service
 Career-Conditional Appointment, Excepted Service
 Term Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed more than 1 year, but not more than 4 years)
 Temporary Appointment (Time-Limited not to exceed 1 year or less)
 Pathways Program (Internship, Recent Graduates, or Presidential Management Fellows)
 Other
 Not Applicable


9.
If you are a current or former Federal civilian employee, indicate the pay plan and grade level or pay band of the highest graded position you have ever held (For example: GS-09, WG-04). If you have never held a federal position, please type "N/A".


10.
Are you a current or former Federal civilian employee with reinstatement eligibility?
 Yes
 No


11.
Have you accepted a buyout, (i.e., Voluntary Separation Incentive Payment (VSIP)) from a Federal agency within the past 5 years? If yes, and you are selected for this position, you must repay the entire (pre-tax) amount of the incentive to the agency which paid the buyout before your first day of work in the new position.
 Yes
 No


12.
Are you receiving a Federal civilian retirement annuity? If yes, and you are selected for this position, your salary may be reduced by the gross amount of the Federal annuity paid during the period of reemployment.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in a position with the Department of Homeland Security, Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). Your resume, supporting documentation, and the response you provide to this assessment questionnaire will be used to determine if you are amongst the best qualified for a position. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application. Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. Your responses are subject to review and verification. If after reviewing your resume and/or supporting documentation a determination is made that you have overstated your qualifications, you will be rated ineligible. If you fail to provide the required documentation, or the documentation submitted is insufficient, you may lose consideration for a position.


1.
EDUCATION FOR GS-05 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for a position at the GS-05 grade level. You MUST submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts to support your educational claims.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, a bachelor's degree or equivalent undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, completed at least four (4) academic years of post-high school leading to a bachelor's or equivalent undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university. (NOTE: Four (4) academic years of undergraduate education is defined as 120 semester hours or 180 quarter hours.)
 I do not meet or exceed the education in the statements above and I do not qualify for a position at the GS-05 grade level.


2.
EDUCATION FOR GS-07 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for a position at the GS-07 grade level. You MUST submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts to support your educational claims.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, completed at least one (1) full academic year of graduate education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university. (NOTE: One (1) academic year of graduate education is defined as the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent one (1) academic year of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from your transcript(s), then 18 semester hours or 27 quarter hours is considered as satisfying the one (1) year of full-time study requirement.)
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, a bachelor's degree or equivalent undergraduate degree from an accredited college or university with Superior Academic Achievement (SAA) based on one of the following: (1) Class standing in the upper third of the graduating class based on completed courses in the college, university, or major subdivision; (2) Grade Point Average (G.P.A.) of 3.0 or higher out of a possible 4.0 as recorded on your official transcript, or as computed based on 4 years of education, or as computed based on courses completed during the final 2 years of curriculum; OR 3.5 or higher out of a possible 4.0 based on the average of the required courses completed in your major field or the required courses in your major field completed during the final 2 years of your curriculum; or (3) Election to membership in a national scholastic honor society.
 I do not meet or exceed the education in the statements above and I do not qualify for a position at the GS-07 grade level.


3.
EDUCATION FOR GS-09 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for a position at the GS-09 grade level. You MUST submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts to support your educational claims.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, a master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, completed at least two (2) full academic years of graduate level education leading to a master's or equivalent graduate degree from an accredited college or university. (NOTE: Two (2) academic years of graduate education is defined as the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent two (2) academic years of full-time study. If that information cannot be obtained from your transcript(s), then 36 semester hours or 54 quarter hours is considered as satisfying the two (2) years of full-time study requirement.)
 I do not meet or exceed the education in the statements above and I do not qualify for a position at the GS-09 grade level.


4.
EDUCATION FOR GS-11 GRADE LEVEL
Carefully read the descriptions below. Select the one statement that best describes the education that you have that demonstrates how you meet the qualification requirements for a position at the GS-11 grade level. You MUST submit a copy of your unofficial transcripts to support your educational claims.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, a research-based Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited college or university.
 I have, or will have within nine (9) months from the date of application, completed at least three (3) full academic years of graduate level education leading to a research-based Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited college or university.
 I do not meet the education in the statements above and I do not qualify for a position at the GS-11 grade level.


5.
I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for a position.
 Yes, I certify to the accuracy of my application and all information provided.
 No, I am not willing to certify to the accuracy of my application or continuing with the application process.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙