Position Title
Health Technician (Ophthalmology)
Agency
Veterans Health Administration
Announcement Number
CBTB-12847171-26-JS Opens in new window
Open Period
Dec 12, 2025 to Dec 29, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
Which of the following items describes your current or recent (within the last five years) political appointee service?

If you responded yes to any of the items below, you will need to include a SF-50 specifying your prior service.
 A. Yes, I am considered a political appointee as described under 5 U.S.C. sections 5312 through 5316.
 B. Yes, I am considered a Non-career Senior Executive Service (SES), Limited Term SES, Limited Emergency SES Executive Branch employee.
 C. Yes, I am considered a political Schedule A, Schedule C, or appointee who served in a political capacity under agency-specific authority in the Executive Branch.
 D. Yes, I am considered a political appointee in the Executive Branch (as described in a., b. or c above) in a covered position in an agency having an interchange agreement with OPM, which allows movement from the agency's system to the competitive civil service.
 E. None of the above. I am not considered a current or recent (last 5 years) political appointee as described above in items a, b, c, or d.


Beginning September 27, 2025, Federal agencies will only accept resumes up to two pages in length to comply with the Merit Hiring Plan. Resumes longer than two pages will result in ineligibility for further consideration for the position. USAJOBS will not allow you to upload or build resumes longer than two pages, and you will need to update the resumes in your profile before applying for a job. Resumes should include information relevant to the knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies of the position to which you are applying. VA is unable to make assumptions about qualifications if not clearly listed. Resumes must be legible so they can be reviewed for eligibility, minimum qualifications and other position requirements listed in the job announcement. Your resume must be 5MB or less. We recommend saving and uploading your resume as a PDF to maintain formatting and number of pages. We also accept GIF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, RTF, TXT, PDF, ODT or Word (DOC or DOCX). We do not accept PDF portfolio files. We recommend using a sans-serif font size like Lato, if available. Other widely available options are Calibri, Helvetica, Arial, Verdana, Open San Source Sans Pro, Roboto or Noro Sans. Make your page margins 0.5 inches. Consider using 14-point size font for titles and 10-point for the main text in your resume. The resume builder can help you create a resume using these recommendations and uses the information in your USAJOBS profile to help you get started. Helpful Hints for Creating a Two-Page Resume:
Prioritize most relevant and recent experience
Use concise, results focused language
Align language from the job announcement
Focus on demonstrating skills and competencies
Remove outdated or unrelated experience
Use the USAJOBS resume builder
Additional guidance on this new requirement and resume building tools can be found at:
https://help.usajobs.gov/faq/application/documents/resume/page-limit
https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/merit-hiring-plan-resources/applicant-guidance-on-the-two-page-resume-limit/
SPECIAL NOTE: Please make sure you review the Required Document section of the Job Opportunity Announcement for special instructions on resume/C.V. submissions.


2.
Are you willing to accept the conditions of employment as indicated in the announcement?
 Yes
 No


By submitting your application, you are certifying, to the best of your knowledge and belief, all the information submitted by you with your application for employment is true, complete, and made in good faith, and that you have truthfully and accurately represented your work experience, knowledge, skills, abilities and education (degrees, accomplishments, etc.). The information you provide as part of your application may be investigated. You are also certifying, and acknowledging, that misrepresenting your experience or education, or providing false or fraudulent information in, or with your application, may affect your eligibility for appointment and/or continued employment. False or fraudulent statements may be punishable by fine or imprisonment (18 U.S.C. 1001).


Assessment 1
Select the appropriate answer to each of the following questions based on your current level of experience and/or education or training that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of this position. When answering the questionnaire, remember that your experience and education are subject to verification by investigation. You may be asked to provide specific examples or documentation of experience or education as proof to support your answers, or you may be required to verify a response by a practical demonstration of your claimed ability to perform a task. If your resume does not support your questionnaire answers, we will not allow credit for your response(s).


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
English Language Proficiency: Candidates must be proficient in spoken and written English to be appointed as authorized by 38 U.S.C. 7403 (f).

Are you proficient in both spoken and written English?
 Yes
 No


2.
Experience and Education:
Select the response below to indicate how you meet the basic requirement for the Health Technician (Ophthalmology) occupation.

To be creditable, the experience:  must have required the use of knowledge, skills and abilities associated with current health technician/assistant or health technician (Ophthalmology)/assistant practice. Experience satisfying this requirement may be paid or non-paid employment as a health technician/assistant or health technician (Ophthalmology)/assistant in the health care field. Qualifying experience must be at a level comparable to health technician/assistant or health technician (Ophthalmology)/assistant experience at the next lower grade level of the position being filled.

Grandfathering Provision. All persons employed in VHA as a Health Technician (Ophthalmology) on the effective date of this qualification standard are considered to have met all qualification requirements for the title, series and grade held, including certification requirements. For employees who do not meet all the basic requirements in this standard, but who met the qualifications applicable to the position at the time they were appointed to it.

Foreign Education. To be creditable, education completed outside the U.S. must have been submitted to a private organization that specializes in the interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education must have been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. programs. Applicants with foreign education must submit a copy of this documentation.

Please ensure you fully detail the experience in your resume. If using education to meet any part of the qualification requirements, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Experience. One year of experience in a health care field, such as but not limited to nursing, medical assistant, or health technician.
 Education. Two years above high school with a minimum of six semester hours directly related to a health care field or associate’s degree in a health care related degree.
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. Example: Six months of experience in the health care field; and one year above high school (Transcript must be included with application packet)
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. Example: Six months of experience in the health care field and successful completion of a course for health care technicians, hospital corpsmen, medical service specialists, or ophthalmology technicians given by the U.S. Armed Forces; (Must include DD214)
 Experience/Education Combination. Equivalent combinations of experience and education are qualifying. Example: Six months of experience in the health care field and completion of an independent study course in Ophthalmic Medical Assisting. (Must include copy of transcript)
 I meet neither of the above.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I am currently employed as a permanent VHA Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-8 or below, on the effective date of the qualification standard (April 9, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.


3.
GS-8 Grade Level Requirement: In addition to meeting the basic requirements for the occupation, applicants must also meet the grade level requirements.

Experience. Applicants must have one year of experience comparable to the next lower grade level (GS-7) which demonstrates the knowledge, skills, and abilities related to the position to be filled.

At the GS-7 level:  Technicians perform duties such as triages patient phone calls or requests; ensures exam rooms are stocked with adequate supplies; instructs patients on administration of eye drops and post-operative instructions; accurately measures, compares, and evaluates pupillary responses; administers eye drops to dilate pupils; performs basic color vision screening; performs visual field testing (using Amsler grid or automated equipment). Performs basic imaging testing such as corneal topography; external photography; performs basic ocular testing such as pachymetry, tear production with test strips, glare testing, stereo acuity, contrast sensitivity, potential acuity meter, measuring spectacles using both automated and manual lensometry and transposing cylinders. The employee assists the ophthalmologist during minor ophthalmic surgical procedures and is adept at applying sterile technique and infection control procedures. Performs autorefractor to determine spectacle prescription.

Demonstrated Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities (KSA). In addition to the experience above, the candidate must demonstrate all of the following KSAs:
1.  Ability to perform advanced tonometry and pupil evaluation;
2.  Ability to perform calculations for selection of intraocular lens;
3.  Knowledge of clinic based ophthalmic surgical assisting;
4.  Knowledge of eye anatomy and physiology;
5.  Knowledge of medication effects and proper instillation in the eye;
6.  Knowledge of optics; and
7.  Knowledge of proper cleaning and maintenance of clinic equipment.

Do you meet ALL of these requirements? You must ensure this is fully detailed in your resume. Failure to do so may result in a not qualified rating.
 Yes, I meet these requirements.
 I meet the grandfathering provision. I was employed as a permanent VHA Health Technician (Ophthalmology), GS-8, on the effective date of the qualification standard (April 9, 2021) and have remained employed in that position.
 No, I do not meet these requirements.


RESUME REMINDER: Your resume must include the following information each job listed: Job title; Duties (be as detailed as possible); Month & year start/end dates (e.g. June 2007 to April 2008); Full-time or part-time status (include hours worked per week); Series and Grade, if applicable, for all Federal positions you have held. Please be aware that your answers will be verified against information provided on your resume. Be sure that your resume clearly supports your responses to all of the questions by addressing your work experience in detail. Recommended: Even though we do not require a specific resume format, your resume must be clear so that we are able to fully evaluate your qualifications. To ensure you receive appropriate consideration, please list the duties you performed under each individual job title. If we are unable to match your experiences with the positions held, you may lose consideration for this vacancy. We cannot make assumptions regarding your qualifications.


Transcript Reminder: If using education to meet any part of the qualification requirements, you MUST SUBMIT a copy of your transcripts with your application. Unofficial is sufficient.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙