Position Title
COOK
Agency
Pacific Air Forces
Announcement Number
26-9YFSBE175898 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 16, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Conditions of Employment
This position has requirements which must be met prior to employment, and conditions for continued employment. Your answers to the questions in this section will indicate your understanding of, or possession of, these requirements and conditions.


1.
Appointment to this position is subject to a background investigation to determine your suitability for Federal employment. Are you willing to submit the proper documentation to have a background investigation completed?
 Yes
 No


2.
This position requires the completion of a pre-employment Physical Examination and one every three years thereafter to ensure the continued, required level of physical health & ability or fitness to perform the duties of the position. Are you willing to submit to a pre-employment physical and willing to maintain a level of physical fitness to obtain and maintain employment as required?
 Yes.
 No.


3.
This position requires shift work to provide coverage on evenings, weekends, holidays, or special situations. Are you willing and able to work an assigned shift to meet work requirements?
 Yes
 No


4.
By agreeing to the statement below you are confirming that you:
Have reviewed your responses to this questionnaire for accuracy
Verified your responses accurately describe your current level of experience and capability
Failure to agree or respond to the this will disqualify you from further consideration for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
To be considered for employment at this location, the incumbent must be a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area as noted in the Job Opportunity Announcement.

Do you meet these requirements?
 Yes, I am a U.S. Citizen or legal U.S. Resident residing in/around the area.
 No, I do meet the above requirements.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙