Position Title
Assistant Club Manager
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations
Announcement Number
12839705 Opens in new window
Open Period
Nov 21, 2025 to Dec 26, 2025
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
1.
What best describes your education below. (If you are stating you have a degree, you must provide a copy to get credit.)
 Bachelor’s degree or higher in culinary, restaurant management, hospitality or in a related field.
 Bachelor’s degree in a non- culinary/restaurant management/ hospitality related field.
 Associates degree.
 I have none of these


2.
How many years of documented experience related to the operational management of food and beverage programs do you have?. (To include knowledge of management procedures and general business practices on the utilization of restaurant/bar facilities and equipment).
 Experience that involves more than three years
 Experience that involves two to three years
 Experience that involves one year or more.
 No experience


3.
Please select all that apply that you have at least one year documented experience on your resume that shows fundamental knowledge of the following:
 A. Proper recipe preparation
 B. Menu planning/engineering
 C. Kitchen safety
 D. Proper Food/beverage handling
 E. Kitchen sanitation rules
 F. Purchasing of food and beverage items
 G. Inventory control
 H. Costing out of food and beverage items
 I. Cash bar sales
 J. Mobile food sales
 K. Food preparation and portion control
 L. Private party contracts


4.
How many years of documented experience do you have in leading and managing employees on your resume (recruitment and selection, training and coaching, addressing disciplinary issues, scheduling, timekeeping, performance evaluations, etc.)
 No experience
 Experience that involves one year or more
 Experience that involves two to three years
 Experience that involves more than three years


5.
Do you have fundamental knowledge of business program management, and financial management to include budgeting, cost and profitability analysis, internal controls, inspection, ticket and asset inventory controls, procurement, vendor negotiation and program management documented on your resume?
 Yes, I have documented experience in all of the above financial management requirements for this position
 Yes, I have documented experience of some of the above financial management requirements for this position
 No, I do not have any documented experience of any of the above financial management requirements for this position.


6.
Do you have documented experience with retail operations (to include some or all of the following: operating a POS, patron tracking, ordering product, monitoring of sales, cash handling, customer service, providing information, inventory, making reservations, equipment issue).
 Yes, more than one year
 Yes, less than one year
 No experience in retail operations


7.
Mark each software program below you are proficient in.
 A. Microsoft Word
 B. Microsoft Excel
 C. Excel
 D. Access
 E. Rec Trac
 F. Payroll (Kronos)
 G. Data Base Management


8.
This position requires an irregular tour of duty, including evenings, weekends and holidays
 Yes, I am available to work the above requirements
 No, I am not available to work the above requirements


9.
Do you have a valid (REAL ID) state driver's license?
 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2025 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙