Position Title
Maintenance Mechanic Supervisor (General Foreman)
Agency
Bureau of Prisons/Federal Prison System
Announcement Number
NER-26-13050076 Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 28, 2026 to Sep 04, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
This position has an age requirement. Enter or select your date of birth.


2.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
The grade level, or at least one of the grade levels, you are applying for is higher than you have previously held or currently hold; OR
The stated full performance level of this position is at a higher grade level than any of your previous or current position's stated full promotion potential.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you currently employed with the Bureau of Prisons as a Federal civilian employee in the Competitive Service AND can you respond "yes" to at least one of the two below statements:
You currently hold or have previously held a position at the same or higher grade level with the same or higher promotion potential as the position being advertised; or
You have held the full promotion potential of this position.
SF-50 (Notification of Personnel Action): SF-50(s) must show the effective date, position title, series, grade, salary, tenure, competitive status, position occupied, full promotion potential, and name of agency. Multiple SF-50s may be needed to show all required information. Award SF-50s do not show the required information.
 Yes
 No


4.
Are you a current or former federal employee displaced from the Department of Justice?

The Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) is an intra-agency program that helps surplus or displaced federal employees improve their chances of finding a new job in their agency, by giving them selection priority over other applicants, as long as they're qualified for the job.

To be eligible under CTAP you must meet all of the following:
You are located in the same local commuting area of this vacancy; AND
You are applying to a position that is at (or below) the grade level of the position from which you were (or will) be separated from; AND
You are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were (or will be) separated from; AND
Your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful, or the equivalent.
To verify your eligibility: You must submit appropriate supporting documentation, such as a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a Proposed Removal/Separation notice to include your latest performance rating (if the notice does not have this information included, you must submit a copy of your most recent performance appraisal) and a copy of your latest Notification of Personnel Action (SF-50). For more information, review the USAJOBS Help Center.
 Yes
 No


5.
Time-in-Grade Requirements

Current or former Federal employees must meet time-in-grade requirements for consideration. A Notification of Personnel Action, SF-50, showing your time-in-grade eligibility must be submitted with your application materials.

If you are a current or former Federal employee, you must provide your most recent UNREDACTED SF-50 to determine proof of status and time-in-grade eligibility. If the most recent SF-50 has an effective date within the past year, it may not clearly demonstrate you possess one-year time-in-grade, as required by the announcement. In this instance, you must provide an additional SF-50 that clearly demonstrates one-year time-in-grade.

Award SF-50's do not provide sufficient information and will not be accepted for the purpose of verifying time-in-grade.

Examples of appropriate SF-50's include:
Within grade increases at the highest grade held; or
Promotions with an effective date more than one year old; or
SF-50's at the highest grade held with an effective date more than one year old.
Do you meet the time-in-grade requirements described above, and have you included the appropriate SF-50s with your application?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Displaced Employee Information (Select one of the following):
 I am an employee of the Department of Justice who has been declared surplus or has received a Reduction in Force (RIF) separation notice or a notice of proposed separation AND I am requesting special selection priority under the Department of Justice's Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP).
 I am a displaced employee from another Federal agency and eligible for selection preference based on the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP).
 I am not a displaced employee from a federal agency.


2.
APPLICANTS: Thank you for your interest in the Department of Justice (DOJ). Having a relative already employed at DOJ does not affect our consideration of you for employment; however, the information requested below is necessary to help DOJ assure that all hiring decisions are free of inappropriate influence by relatives employed in the Department and otherwise are consistent with applicable laws and policies.

EMPLOYEES: You must submit this certification in connection with a personnel action by which you will move to a different position than the one you currently encumber.

Merit System Principles set forth in Section 2301(b) of Title 5, U.S.C. provide guidance on federal personnel management. 5 U.S.C §§ 2302(b) and 3110(b) contain provisions identifying as a prohibited personnel practice engaging in nepotism (i.e., to appoint, employ, promote, or advance relatives; or advocate for the same) by public officials. It is also a prohibited personnel practice to grant a preference or advantage not authorized by law, rule, or regulation to an employee or applicant for the purpose of improving or injuring any individual's prospects for employment. Consistent with these laws and applicable ethics requirements, you are asked to identify relatives or other covered individuals (defined below) who work anywhere in the Department. For purposes of this form, the term "relative" includes a DOJ employee's or applicant's spouse, parent, guardian, grandparent, sister/brother (including step/half relationships), child/grandchild (including biological, adopted, foster, or step child, legal ward, or child for whom the employee/applicant stands in loco parentis), in-law, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece, or first cousin. "Other covered individuals" include a domestic partner, more distant relatives than those listed above with whom the employee/applicant has a close personal relationship, or anyone currently residing in the employee's/applicant's household, even temporarily.

If you do have any relatives or other covered individuals who work anywhere in the Department, please include their full name, relationship, and the Department of Justice organization they are employed by.

If you do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department, please indicate "I do not have a relative or other covered individual who works for the Department."

A false statement on any part of your application may be grounds for not hiring you, or for firing you after you begin work. Also, you may be punished by fine or imprisonment (U.S. Code, title 18, section 1001).


3.
Please choose the answer that best describes your current employment status with the Federal Bureau of Prisons:
 I am a current employee of the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
 I am a DOJ Surplus and Displaced (CTAP) Employee in the local commuting area.
 I am not a current Bureau of Prisons employee.


Assessment 1
Carefully read each question and all possible answers before selecting a response. Some questions will be used to screen out ineligible applicants. Applicant errors in responses will not be corrected. You are responsible for the accuracy of your application.


Select “Yes” or “No” to the following question(s).


1.
You must have experience of sufficient scope and quality to do the work of the position. Your application must show that you have sufficient training and experience to perform the duties of the position as described in the VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT. Do you meet the requirements for this position?
 Yes
 No


NOTE: Your resume must clearly document in detail how you possess the qualifications to successfully perform the duties of this position. Failure to specifically identify skills in this field may result in your being found ineligible. This information along with your responses to the assessment questions will be used to determine your qualifications for the position.


ASSESSMENT QUESTIONSLISTED BELOW ARE GROUPED STATEMENTS RELATING TO THE ASSESSMENTS/COMPETENCIES NECESSARY FOR THE POSITION. Read each question carefully and select the answer choice that best describes your experience.


2.
General Foremen must be able to lead other workers or supervise subordinates, to deal objectively and harmoniously with others, and to render sound decisions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising small groups of workers; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material needs; and/or I have experience in training new workers.
 I have experience as a foreman supervising journeyman workers in the line of work; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have scheduled workflow or work assignments; and/or I have trained helpers, apprentices or intermediate workers.
 I have experience in leading workers as a regular assignment; and/or I have the ability to organize material, tools and equipment common to the trade; and/or I have assisted with the training of new workers; and/or I have supervised inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have assisted in organizing work assignments and materials; and/or I have interpreted oral and written instructions for workers.
 I have experience in supervising small groups of inmates in a correctional setting; and/or I have experience in organizing work assignments; and/or I have experience in estimating time and material and evaluating performance; and/or I have provided training to new workers.
 I have experience as a supervisor of an inmate crew in the line of work, in a correctional setting; and/or I have been responsible for estimating material, equipment and manpower needs; and/or I have made work assignments according to individual abilities; and/or I have scheduled workflow in compliance with security needs; and/or I have provided formal and informal training to members of the crew.
 None of the above.


3.
In a correctional setting, General Foremen must demonstrate an aptitude for work with prisoners in the accomplishment of trades and labor functions. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience as a foreman or correctional officer supervising an inmate crew on a daily basis in a correctional institution; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to stimulate the interest of inmates who are reluctant to learn trade work; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to observe the principles and practices of prison security (i.e., safeguard shop tools and materials and report attitudes and actions indicative of potential security problems).
 I am willing to work with prisoners in confined areas; and/or I have the capacity for using good judgment such as determining the necessary action in unusual circumstances that might arise in a correctional institution.
 I have experience in community crime or delinquency prevention programs; and/or I have done recreation work in a police boys club; and/or I have experience in giving vocational training in a correctional or rehabilitative organization; and/or I have a strong interest in corrections as evidenced by training or education in correctional work, criminology, sociology, penology, and/or law.
 None of the above.


4.
General Foremen must be knowledgeable and have experience in various trades, such as: painting, plumbing, HVAC, carpentry, welding, masonry, general maintenance work, heating/air conditioning, pipefitting, electrical, utilities, and power plant operations. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have worked as a wage supervisor in one of the trades mentioned above and I have working knowledge and experience in at least two of the trades listed above.
 I have worked as a wage supervisor in one of the trades mentioned above and I have working knowledge and experience in at least one other of the trades listed above
 I have worked as a wage supervisor in one of the trades mentioned above and I have working knowledge and experience in at least three or more of the trades listed above.
 None of the above.


5.
General Foremen must have the ability to adjust to change in technology by reorganizing, incorporating new methods, etc. They must be able to plan workloads accordingly, prototype meetings, make recommendations on accepting and rejecting new workloads, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have effectively planned work for a group or workers, including scheduling use of machines, equipment, materials, and manpower; and/or I have adjusted readily to changing conditions and emergency situations; and/or I have performed in a supervisory position as a Wage Supervisor in at least one of the relevant trades where ability to plan and coordinate work between shops is required.
 I have experience in shops of the relevant trades and have been responsible for planning the work for that shop; and/or I have experience in assigning workers to jobs, taking into consideration relative skills of the workers being assigned.
 I have an excellent record in meeting production schedules in a supervisory capacity; and/or I have been well trained in these concepts, in either formal training situation or gained these abilities through self development; and/or I have planned and organized work for a crew where judgment involved considering individual abilities.
 I have some experience in coordinating work between shops and supervising work in various areas; and/or I have performed satisfactorily as a foreman in at least one of the relevant trades and planned work with other shops to ensure an assignment was completed.
 None of the above.


6.
General Foremen must have the ability to secure an agreement without causing friction, to understand the other person's position, and to resolve conflicts. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have displayed the ability in working with shop personnel in resolving work and personnel problems; and/or I am able to express opinions and views without causing friction; and/or I have actively attempted to guide others in maintaining harmonious relationships in the shop.
 I have worked with other supervisors in mutually resolving manpower, equipment, and material problems with a minimum of dissension; and/or I have implemented new methods and procedures, assigned priorities, and reorganized shop workloads to ensure continuity of work flow with a minimum of confusion and conflict; and/or I use tact and diplomacy in working with others.
 I have the ability to explain work policy and technical standards to others in a manner that they are clear and easily understood and not arouse friction in the work group; and/or I am able to work harmoniously in a team situation; and/or I have resolved most of my personnel problems independently.
 None of the above.


7.
General Foremen refer to abrupt and unexpected changes in work assignments, practices, and deadlines. These changes include changes in priorities and deadlines on short notice; crash programs; quick reaction projects; advanced completion dates, etc. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 I have experience as a supervisor in scheduling and setting priorities for work in several shops; and/or I have coordinated work effectively to meet deadline dates on a short notice; and/or I have demonstrated the ability to organize a shop and workers to quickly react to changes in priority of work being done.
 I have demonstrated the ability to adjust to changes and priorities; as a supervisor of a shop, I have ensured normal deadlines are met.
 I have functioned in a supervisory position where work demands frequent changes in priorities; and/or I have performed duties where work included many frequent deadline dates, and priorities were set for my own shop.
 None of the above.


8.
General Foremen must have the ability to solve unusual production problems and must know how to devise new methods and specialized devices and modify equipment. From the choices below, please select the one that best describes your experience.
 As a supervisor, I have demonstrated the ability to adjust operations and equipment to new or unusual situations on my own initiative; and/or I have worked without fully developed guides, solving problems and contributing to design completion.
 I have demonstrated the ability to recognize the need for adaptations in methods, techniques, and procedures; and/or I have new or revised methods, techniques and procedures with minimum guidance; and/or I have solved normal work guidance independently.
 As a shop supervisor, I have performed frequent or constant modifications to equipment and work procedures in order to maintain efficient production; and/or I have suggested new ideas and/or concepts which have been adopted for use outside my shop and line of work.
 None of the above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙