Position Title
SUPERVISORY INTERDISCIPLINARY COMMUNITY PLANNER/ENGINEER-Direct hire authority
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-INTER-12935397-CC Opens in new window
Open Period
Apr 14, 2026 to May 05, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the series you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one series.
 A. 0020 - Community Planning
 B. 0801 - General Engineering
 C. 0808 - Architecture
 D. 0810 - Civil Engineering
 E. 0830 - Mechanical Engineering
 F. 0850 - Electrical Engineering


Assessment 1
This section is used to determine if you meet the minimum education requirement for a Community Planner/Engineer position. FAILURE TO RESPOND TO THIS QUESTION WILL RESULT IN AN INELIGIBLE RATING.


1.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience for the Community Planner position. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a degree: in community planning or related field such as urban affairs, architecture, landscape architecture, engineering, sociology, geography, economics, political science, or public administration that included at least 12 semester hours in the planning process, socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, urban and regional economic analysis, and development finance.
 I have a combination of education and experience: courses equivalent to a major in one of the above disciplines, or a combination of related courses totaling at least 24 semester hours in any combination of the above disciplines of which at least 12 semester hours were in the planning process, and socioeconomic and physical elements of planning, plus appropriate experience or additional education.
 I do not meet either of the requirements listed above.


2.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience the for the General Engineer position. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a bachelor degree in professional Engineering from a school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum.
 I have a bachelor degree in professional Engineering which included differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes evidence of having successfully passed the Engineer-in-Training (EIT) examination, or the test for professional registration, which is administered by the Boards of Engineering.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes 60 semester hours of courses in the physical, mathematical, and engineering sciences and in engineering that included the courses noted in the basic qualifications of the announcement.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes successful completion of curriculum leading to a bachelor`s degree in engineering technology or in an appropriate professional field may be accepted in lieu of a degree in engineering, provided that the applicant has had 1 year of professional engineering experience acquired under professional engineering supervision and guidance.
 I have a combination of education and experience - college level education, training, and/or technical experience which includes current registration as a professional engineer by any State, District of Columbia, Guam, or Puerto Rico.
 I do not meet the education or experience requirements as described.


3.
From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience for the Architect position. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have a degree in architecture or related field that included 60 semester hours of course work in architecture or related disciplines of which at least (1) 30 semester hours were in architectural design, and (2) 6 semester hours were in each of the following: structural technology, properties of materials and methods of construction, and environmental control systems.
 I have a combination of education and experience -- college-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the arts and sciences underlying professional architecture, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the architectural principles, methods, and techniques and their applications to the design and construction or improvement of buildings. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by at least one of the following: Related Curriculum: Degree in architectural engineering may be accepted as satisfying in full the basic requirements, provided the completed course work in architectural engineering provided knowledge, skills, and abilities substantially equivalent to those provided in the courses specified in paragraph A. The curriculum for a degree in either architecture or architectural engineering covers function, esthetics, site, structure, economics, mechanical-electrical, and other engineering problems related to the design and construction of buildings primarily (but not exclusively) intended to house human activities. The courses required for a degree in architecture generally place emphasis upon planning, esthetics, and materials and methods of construction, while the courses for an architectural engineering degree place equal or greater weight on the technical engineering aspects such as structural systems, mechanical systems, and the properties of materials. Because of this difference in emphasis, persons with degrees in architecture may have a preference for work assignments that offer greater opportunities for them to express their artistic and creative abilities. As a result, they may be more concerned with planning and design aspects of architecture, and persons with degrees in architectural engineering may be more engaged in aspects emphasizing technical engineering considerations. Experience: An applicant lacking a degree in architecture must have had l year of experience in an architect's office or in architectural work for each year short of graduation from a program of study in architecture. In the absence of college courses, 5 years of such experience is required. This experience must have demonstrated that the applicant has acquired a thorough knowledge of the fundamental principles and theories of professional architecture.
 I do not meet the education requirement for the architect series.


4.
All applicants must meet the specialized experience requirement of at least 52 weeks of specialized experience at the next lower broadband NH-02, equivalent to next lower grade (GS-11) in Federal service or equivalent in other pay systems.

From the descriptions below, select the letter corresponding to the statement that best represents your level of education/experience. YOUR TRANSCRIPTS AND RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have, or will have within 120 days of the closing of this announcement, one year of specialized experience equivalent to the NH-02 or GS-11 grade level in the federal service which includes professional knowledge of engineering/planning concepts, principles, practices, standards, methods, and techniques to effectively apply theories, principles, and concepts to installation facility space management, planning, and optimization programs.
 I do not have the experience as reflected above.


5.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.

 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documentation and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my response to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or I may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙