Position Title
LEAD IT SPECIALIST (NETWORK SERVICES/CUSTOMER SUPPORT)-DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY
Agency
Air Force Materiel Command
Announcement Number
AFMC-221002-13035377-SEC Opens in new window
Open Period
Aug 14, 2026 to Sep 03, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
Please answer the following questions by selecting the appropriate response(s). NOTE: Applicants are responsible for claiming their appropriate eligibility/eligibilities. Veterans' Preference is NOT an eligibility; it is a hiring preference, where applicable. You must select at least one eligibility to receive consideration for this position. If you do not have one of the eligibilities listed, you are not "eligible" to apply for this position and your application will not be referred to the hiring manager.

We are not responsible for erroneous eligibilities that you list or those you fail to list. All competitive eligible candidates must complete the entire Application Questionnaire as part of the application package. Ensure you thoroughly read the instructions for each section.


1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
US Citizen - Are you a US citizen (either by birth or naturalization) or national of the United States?
 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Edwards AFB, CA
 B. Eglin AFB, FL
 C. Nellis AFB, NV
 D. Holloman AFB, NM
 E. Arnold AFB, TN
 F. Hill AFB, UT


Assessment 1
This section will be used to determine if you possess the basic requirements needed to qualify for a Lead IT Specialist (Network/Customer Support), NH-2210-02. Failure to respond to this question will result in an ineligible rating


1.
From the descriptions below, choose the letter that BEST describes the HIGHEST level of specialized experience you have to demonstrate your ability to perform as a Lead IT Specialist (Network Services/Customer Support) NH-2210-02. NOTE: YOUR RESUME MUST SUPPORT THE RESPONSE YOU SELECT.
 I have (or will have) at least one (1) year of specialized experience at the next lower broadband (NH-01), equivalent to the next lower grade (GS-4) (or equivalent in an alternative pay system) in the Federal service within 120 days of the closing date for this announcement. Specialized experience must demonstrate the following competencies: attention to detail, customer service, interpersonal skills, problem solving, teamwork and technical competence. Should also include knowledge of system software and systems development life cycles, including systems documentation, design development, configuration management cost analysis, systems integration and testing.
 I do not have the specialized experience as reflected above; however, I believe I have the ability to successfully perform the duties of this position.


CERTIFICATION: I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of the information included in this questionnaire is true, correct, and provided in good faith. I understand that if I make an intentional false statement, or commit deception or fraud in this application and its supporting materials, or in any document or interview associated with the examination process, I may be fined or imprisoned (18 U.S.C. 1001); my eligibilities may be cancelled, I may be denied an appointment, or I may be removed and debarred from Federal service (5 C.F.R. part 731). I understand that any information I give may be investigated. I understand that responding "No" to this item will result in my not being considered for this position.


2.
Failure to agree or respond to the statement below will disqualify you from further consideration for the position. Select the most appropriate response below.
 Yes, I verify that all of my responses to this questionnaire are true and accurate. I accept that if my supporting documents and/or later steps in the selection process do not support one or more of my responses to the questionnaire that my application may be rated lower and/or may be removed from further consideration.
 No, I do not accept this agreement and/or I no longer wish to be considered for this position.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙