Position Title
HR SPEC (COMP/R&P) (TITLE 5)
Agency
Army National Guard Units
Announcement Number
NC-12960989-AR-26-109 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 18, 2026 to May 22, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


Preferences
1.
I have a valid, current state driver's license or I am able and willing to obtain and maintain a valid state driver's license.

 Yes
 No


2.
Are you currently a Federal Employee? If so, a copy of your SF 50 is required.

 Yes
 No


3.
If selected, are you willing to accept this indefinite position, and understand that the position may be terminated upon receipt of a 30 day notice (due to return of original employee hired to backfill/funding/workload).  

 Yes
 No


Requirements
1.
Which Area of Consideration represents your current status?

 Area 1 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at (JFHQ-HRO) (See last SF50).
 Area 2 - I am currently a Tenure 1, 2, or 3 NC National Guard employee (Title 32 (including AGR with Restoration Rights) or Title 5) working at a NC National Guard unit/activity, other than (JFHQ-HRO) (See last SF50).
 Area 3 - Within the NC National Guard, I serve in one of the following categories: 1) Temporary Military Technician (Tenure 0 on SF50), or 2) AGR (without Restoration rights as a military technician), or 3) a "traditional (Drill Status Guard) member only".
 Area 4 - I am currently a Federal Employee "not" employed by the NC National Guard.
 Area 5 - I am currently a U.S. Citizens, NOT employed as a Federal Employee.
 None of the Areas listed above apply to my current status.


2.
Are you currently serving on Active Duty? If, yes you must provide a "current DD 214 or Statement/Memo from your Command". The statement of service must provide the branch of service, rate/rank, all dates of service, the expected date of discharge and anticipated character of service (Honorable, General, etc).

 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Once the application process is complete, a review of your resume and supporting documentation will be completed. If, after reviewing your resume and supporting documentation, it is determined that you have misrepresented your qualifications and/or experience, a revised assessment will be rendered.   



1.
Select the one statement that best describes the Basic Qualification that you possess.
 I HAVE 1) skill in collecting and analyzing data effectively, efficiently, and accurately, 2) the ability to write English in reports and presentation formats, 3) the ability to communicate -orally and in writing- clearly and effectively, 4) skill in presenting formal training presentations and briefings, 5) the ability to assess body language and perceive emotional and/or distress levels, and 6) skill in applying procedures and directives by reading and interpreting program material.
 I DO NOT possess ALL of the factors described above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the General Experience that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201-12 HR Specialist (Compensation / Recruitment & Placement).
 I HAVE a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.
 I DO NOT HAVE a validated understanding of the basic principles and concepts of the occupational series and grade.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the Specialized Experience and/or education that you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the duties of a GS-0201-12 HR Specialist (Compensation / Recruitment & Placement) Supervisor.
 I HAVE 1) at least one year of specialized experiences at the GS-11 level or the equivalent which provided a working knowledge of National Guard missions, organizations, and federal civilian or military personnel programs, 2) specialized experiences in personnel and manpower core competencies, 3) experience in performing personnel program requirements that involve advising supervisors and managers, 4) 12 months of career broadening human resources program experience in leading, planning and scheduling work, 5) experience in guiding employees on human resources (military or civilian) program tasks, 6) and experience in conducting employee performance evaluations and directing assigned work, or leading employees on program tasks.
 I DO NOT have at least one year of the experience, education or training listed above.


Read through all the following questions carefully and answer in complete sentences.


4.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.



5.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.



6.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.



7.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic, or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.



8.
I certify that I have used my own words and did not use a consultant or AI (such as a large language mode [LLM]) to answer the above questions.

 Yes
 No


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙