Position Title
Electronics Engineer
Agency
Western Area Power Administration
Announcement Number
WJ-26-01010-13023725-DE Opens in new window
Open Period
Jul 31, 2026 to Aug 13, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you a SURPLUS or DISPLACED federal employee (e.g., Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP))?

If yes, confirm:

--you are located in the same local commuting area as the vacancy;
--you are applying to a position that is at or below the grade level of the position from which you were or will be separated;
--you are applying to a position that does not have greater promotion potential than the position from which you were or will be separated; AND
--your last performance rating of record is at least fully successful or equivalent.

For more information on eligibility visit:  https://www.usajobs.gov/help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/federal-employees/career-transition/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


3.
Are you the spouse of:

--a member of the armed forces serving on active duty;
--a 100 percent disabled service member injured while on active duty; OR
--a service member who was killed while performing active duty (un-remarried widow or widower)?

For more information on eligibility visit: https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/working-in-government/unique-hiring-paths/military-spouses/

Check the REQUIRED DOCUMENTS section in the job announcement for instructions to support your eligibility to apply for this vacancy.
 Yes
 No


4.
Reasonable Accommodations for taking the online assessments are provided on a case-by-case basis only to qualified individuals with a disability covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.

Do you have a disability (physical or mental) that you believe will interfere with completing the online assessments and require a Reasonable Accommodation?

 Yes
 No


Preferences
1.
Select the location(s) you want to be considered for. You must choose at least one location.
 A. Loveland, CO
 B. Billings, MT
 C. Fort Peck, MT
 D. Bismarck, ND
 E. Huron, SD
 F. Watertown, SD


2.
Select the lowest grade you are willing to accept for this position.
12
13


3.
Do any of your relatives work for the agency to which you are applying? If so, please list any applicable names below. Please enter N/A in the text box, if not Applicable. (Include: father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin, nephew, niece, father-in-law, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, and half sister).


4.
I understand that the responses in this questionnaire must be fully supported in my online resume. I further understand that my resume must provide detailed descriptions and/or examples of my knowledge and competencies as required in the vacancy announcement, and that my failure to do so may result in my being rated "ineligible" or "not qualified" for this position.
 Yes
 No


5.
Are you an employee of one of the following?

 Southeastern Power Administration
 Southwestern Power Administration
 Western Area Power Administration
 None of the above


6.
Are you currently serving or have served in the last five (5) years in a Political Appointment in the Federal Government?
 Yes
 No


7.
Please list the title, agency and dates of the appointments


The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


8.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


9.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


10.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


11.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


12.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Conditions of Employment
1.
I understand that travel may be required from 1 to 3 days per month and may include overnight travel.
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Please select the responses to the questions below that best describes your experience as it relates to this position.


1.
Select the one statement that best describes the education and experience you possess that demonstrates you meet the Individual Occupational Requirement for the 0855 Series:

 Degree: Engineering: To be acceptable, the program must: (1) lead to a bachelor's degree in a school of engineering with at least one program accredited by ABET; or (2) include differential and integral calculus and courses (more advanced than first-year physics and chemistry) in five of the following seven areas of engineering science or physics: (a) statics, dynamics; (b) strength of materials (stress-strain relationships); (c) fluid mechanics, hydraulics; (d) thermodynamics; (e) electrical fields and circuits; (f) nature and properties of materials (relating particle and aggregate structure to properties); and (g) any other comparable area of fundamental engineering science or physics, such as optics, heat transfer, soil mechanics, or electronics.
 Combination of Education and Experience: College-level education, training, and/or technical experience that furnished (1) a thorough knowledge of the physical and mathematical sciences underlying engineering, and (2) a good understanding, both theoretical and practical, of the engineering sciences and techniques and their applications to one of the branches of engineering. The adequacy of such background must be demonstrated by one of the following:
 I do not meet the requirements as described in A or B above.


2.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Engineer, at the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.
 I have one year (52 weeks) of specialized experience at the GS-11 grade level or equivalent pay band. This experience MUST include all the following: Providing technical assistance in these technologies: - Fiber optics - Radio systems (VHF, UHF, spread spectrum, microwave) - Data network technologies such as MPLS or SONET, TDM, IP or VOIP
 I do not meet any of the requirements described in A above.


3.
Select the one statement that best describes the experience you possess that demonstrates your ability to perform the work of an Electronics Engineer, at the GS-13 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service.

 I have one year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-12 grade level or equivalent pay band in the Federal service. This experience MUST include all the following: Using communications systems that support transmission system facilities for computer systems such as Using communications systems that support transmission system facilities for computer systems such as Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) or Energy Management System (EMS), data and voice communication infrastructures and in these technologies: -Fiber optics -Radio systems (VHF, UHF, spread spectrum, microwave) -Data network technologies such as MPLS or SONET, TDM, IP or VOIP
 I do not meet any of the requirements as described in A above.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙