Position Title
N96 Child and Youth Program Food Service Worker
Agency
Commander, Navy Installations Command
Announcement Number
26-12971948 Opens in new window
Open Period
May 27, 2026 to Jun 08, 2026
For preview purposes only. To apply, please return to the USAJOBS announcement and click the Apply button.
Eligibilities
1.
Do you claim Veterans’ Preference?
 No, I do not claim Veterans' Preference
 0-point Sole Survivorship Preference (SSP)
 5-point preference based on active duty in the U.S. Armed Forces (TP)
 10-point preference for non-compensable disability or Purple Heart (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of at least 10% but less than 30% (CP)
 10 point preference based on widow/widower or parent of a deceased veteran, or spouse or parent of a disabled veteran (XP)
 10-point preference based on a compensable service connected disability of 30% or more (CPS)


2.
Are you the spouse of a relocating Armed Forces member?  If yes, please confirm the following: I am a military spouse who is currently married to my active duty sponsor.

I am exercising my preference eligibility for positions within the local commuting area of my sponsor's current duty station.  I certify that I have not accepted nor declined a permanent, continuing Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the local commuting area of our current duty location. 

NOTE 1:  Military spouses are eligible for one permanent appointment using their preference eligibility for the duration of the active duty sponsor's assignment to a permanent duty station, as long as the military spouse has not declined or accepted a permanent Federal or non-appropriated fund position in the commuting area of the sponsor's current duty location.  If you certify that you have not used your preference at your sponsor's current duty location and it is discovered to be untrue, you may be subject to loss of MSP and possible disciplinary action. 

NOTE 2:  You must include documentation of your preference eligibility which includes:  A copy of the PCS orders and your marriage certificate or license.

Failure to provide this documentation will result in a rating of ineligible.
 Yes
 No


Internal Applicant
1.
Are you a current Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) employee with Naval District Washington?
 Yes
 No


Essay Questions
The following four narrative questions provide an opportunity for you to highlight your dedication to public service for the hiring manager and agency leadership (or designee(s)). While your responses are not required and will not be scored, we encourage you to thoughtfully address each question. Please provide a response of 200 words or less to each question. You will be asked to certify that you are using your own words and did not use a consultant or artificial intelligence (AI) such as a large language model (LLM) like ChatGPT or Copilot.


1.
How has your commitment to the Constitution and the founding principles of the United States inspired you to pursue this role within the Federal government? Provide a concrete example from professional, academic, or personal experience.


2.
In this role, how would you use your skills and experience to improve government efficiency and effectiveness? Provide specific examples where you improved processes, reduced costs, or improved outcomes.


3.
How would you help advance the President's Executive Orders and policy priorities in this role? Identify one or two relevant Executive Orders or policy initiatives that are significant to you, and explain how you would help implement them if hired.


4.
How has a strong work ethic contributed to your professional, academic or personal achievements? Provide one or two specific examples, and explain how those qualities would enable you to serve effectively in this position.


5.
I certify that the above responses are in my own words and I did not use a consultant or Artificial Intelligence (such as a large language model (LLM)).
 Yes
 No


Assessment 1
Thank you for your interest in the Department of the Navy Nonappropriated Funds Employment. This section will be used to determine if you possess the education and/or experience to qualify for a Child and Youth Program Food Service Worker. Failure to respond to the question(s) will result in an ineligible rating.


1.
Please select the education and/or experience applicable to you.
 I have a high school diploma or equivalent.
 I have none of the above.


2.
How many years of experience do you have in supporting the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP) and other food programs?
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a Department of Defense (DoD) Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in supporting the USDA CACFP.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in supporting food programs.
 I have no experience in the above.


3.
How many years of experience do you have in food preparation and procedures?
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 2+ years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 2 years of experience in food preparation and procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food preparation and procedures.
 I have no experience in the above.


4.
How many years of experience do you have in food handling techniques, personal hygiene standards, and safe work procedures?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food handling techniques, hygiene standards, and safe work procedures.
 I have no experience in the above


5.
How many years of experience do you have in following food sanitation standards and procedures to prevent contamination (e.g., cleaning equipment that has been used for raw food before further use and using chemical sanitizers)?
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 I have 3+ years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 to 3 years of experience in food sanitation, as described above, in a child and youth program outside of the DoD.
 I have 1 or more years of experience in food sanitation.
 I have less than 1 year of experience in food sanitation.
 I have no experience in the above.


6.
Have you ever held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program?
 Yes, I have held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.
 No, I have not held a Food Service Program position in a DoD Child and Youth Program.


 Terms of Use  FOIA  Privacy & Cookies  USAJOBS.gov  OPM  USA.gov
© 2026 US Office of Personnel Management
This is a USA Staffing® System
An error has occurred. This application may no longer respond until reloaded. Reload 🗙